Filed 7/10/25 
CERTIFIED FOR PUBLICATION 
 
 
IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
 
SECOND APPELLATE DISTRICT 
 
DIVISION TWO 
 
Conservatorship of the Person and 
Estate of ANNE S. 
     B333052 
MARC B. HANKIN, 
Petitioner and Appellant, 
v. 
ANNE S., 
Objector and Respondent. 
     (Los Angeles County 
     Super. Ct. No. 22STPB07456) 
 
APPEAL from orders of the Superior Court of Los Angeles 
County, Jessica A. Uzcategui, Judge. Affirmed. 
 
Marc B. Hankin, in pro. per.; and Evan D. Marshall for 
Petitioner and Appellant. 
 
Jeffer, Mangels, Butler & Mitchell and Vatche J. Zetjian for 
Objector and Respondent. 
____________________ 
 
 

 
2
Marc B. Hankin appeals a probate court order granting 
judgment on the pleadings and dismissing his petition for the 
appointment of a probate conservator for Anne S.1 Hankin also 
appeals the court's imposition of $5,577 in sanctions. In this 
appeal, we consider who is authorized by Probate Code 
section 1820 to petition for the appointment of conservators and 
whether the trial court correctly concluded Hankin was not so 
authorized in this case. Because we agree Hankin is not an 
authorized petitioner and sanctions were appropriate, we affirm. 
FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND 
 
On July 28, 2022, attorneys G. Scott Sobel and Marc B. 
Hankin petitioned for Sobel's appointment as probate conservator 
of the person and estate of Anne (the Joint Petition). Hankin 
represented Sobel for purposes of the Joint Petition. Hankin is 
also Anne's "neighbor" who "lives one street to the east"; he met 
Anne once "while [he] and his wife were taking a walk," and he 
"chatted [with her] for several minutes." Sobel stated he had 
known Anne and her now-deceased husband since 1990, and he 
was "a constant confidant and adviser to Anne." Barbara Lerer, 
who had been Anne's health care agent under a 2007 advanced 
healthcare directive, joined the Joint Petition as a co-petitioner in 
favor of Sobel's appointment. 
 
The Joint Petition was supported by a number of 
declarations from Anne's family (including her stepson, 
Jonathan S.), friends, medical personnel, and other individuals. 
Essentially, it alleged Anne was being unduly influenced and 
 
1  
We refer to Anne and her stepson, Jonathan S., by first 
names and last initials. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.90(b)(2), 
(11).) 

 
3
possibly mistreated by her housemate, Nadine Brownen. It also 
claimed Brownen attempted to orchestrate a sale of Anne's home.  
 
Anne, through attorney Vatche J. Zetjian, objected to being 
placed under conservatorship and objected to the Joint Petition 
on August 9, 2022. In October 2022, Lerer requested her joinder 
to the Joint Petition be dismissed without prejudice. 
 
Several months later in January 2023, Jonathan filed a 
competing petition requesting his own appointment as Anne's 
conservator. That petition relied upon the declarations submitted 
in connection with the Joint Petition in August 2022 to assert 
Anne could not provide for her personal needs or manage her 
financial resources.  
Thereafter, on January 30, 2023, Anne, Jonathan, and 
Lerer executed a Settlement Agreement to resolve their disputes 
arising from the conservatorship proceedings. Among its 
provisions, the Settlement Agreement included Brownen's signed 
agreement to move out of Anne's home in exchange for a total of 
$10,000 in payments to Brownen, agreements by Anne for certain 
professionals to manage her finances, personal affairs, and 
medical care, and an agreement Anne would not change her trust 
or sell her home without a court order. The Settlement 
Agreement was signed by attorney Zetjian as counsel for Anne 
and was contingent on court approval. In order to facilitate that 
approval, Jonathan filed a petition to be appointed Anne's 
temporary conservator. 
On February 14, 2023, Sobel substituted Hankin out as his 
attorney and proceeded pro se. That same day, Sobel requested 
dismissal of his portion of the Joint Petition. After Sobel 
withdrew, Hankin maintained the petition for appointment of a 
conservator in his own right. We will refer to the Joint Petition 

 
4
after Sobel's dismissal as the Hankin Petition. Hankin also 
sought an order authorizing a doctor to complete a capacity 
declaration regarding Anne, which the court denied. 
On March 13, 2023, Jonathan moved ex parte for the trial 
court to approve the Settlement Agreement. The following day, 
Hankin opposed on the ground Anne had no capacity to sign the 
Settlement Agreement or other legal documents. The court then 
appointed Jonathan as temporary conservator with limited 
powers to approve petitions to approve the Settlement Agreement 
and for a substituted judgment. On March 24, 2023, Jonathan 
duly petitioned for approval of the Settlement Agreement. 
Hankin opposed the settlement.  
Meanwhile, on April 5, 2023, Anne, still represented by 
Zetjian, moved for sanctions against Hankin pursuant to Code of 
Civil Procedure section 128.7. She argued Hankin was a stranger 
to her with "no legal authority to bring . . . a petition or to 
participate in conservatorship matters concerning [her]." Anne 
asserted the pendency of the Hankin Petition and Hankin's 
opposition to the settlement wrongfully delayed the 
implementation of the Settlement Agreement and had caused her 
and other parties to incur additional expenses. She asked for 
$5,577 in attorney fees incurred since Sobel's withdrawal of his 
petition on February 14, 2023. Jonathan joined the motion and 
asked for $6,720 for his attorney fees. Hankin opposed sanctions 
on the grounds his claims and contentions were not frivolous and 
were warranted by existing law.  
Through attorney Zetjian, Anne moved for judgment on the 
pleadings and to dismiss the Hankin Petition for lack of standing 
on May 4, 2023. Jonathan and Lerer joined the motion. Hankin 
opposed it. 

 
5
On July 20, 2023, the trial court granted Anne's motion for 
judgment on the pleadings and determined Hankin lacked 
standing to petition for conservatorship of Anne pursuant to 
Probate Code section 1820.2 On the same date, the court granted 
Anne's motion for sanctions in part: it determined the Hankin 
Petition was legally frivolous and awarded $5,577 in sanctions 
against Hankin, payable to Anne. It declined to award the 
sanctions requested by Jonathan. Hankin timely appealed both 
orders. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 904.1, subd. (a)(1), (12); Cal. Rules 
of Court, rule 8.104(a), (e).) 
DISCUSSION 
I. 
The Trial Court Did Not Err in Granting Judgment 
on the Pleadings 
The trial court determined "Hankin does not meet any of 
[the] criteria" to maintain a petition pursuant to section 1820, 
and therefore "the petition does not state facts sufficient to 
constitute a cause of action." (See Fremont Indemnity Co. v. 
Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 112 ["lack of 
standing . . . and the failure to state facts sufficient to constitute 
a cause of action . . . are general grounds for demurrer" and are 
both "considered a failure to state facts sufficient to constituted a 
cause of action"]; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (b), 
(e).) The trial court did not err. 
A. 
Standard of Review 
" 'A motion for judgment on the pleadings is equivalent to a 
demurrer and is governed by the same de novo standard of 
 
2  
All further undesignated references are to the Probate 
Code. 

 
6
review.' " (People ex rel. Harris v. Pac Anchor Transportation, Inc. 
(2014) 59 Cal.4th 772, 777.) 
B. 
A Section 1820 Petition Must Be Brought by a 
Proper Party 
In general, "every action [must] be prosecuted in the name 
of the real party in interest." (Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. 
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 1004; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 367.) 
"Generally, 'the person possessing the right sued upon by reason 
of the substantive law is the real party in interest.' " (Del Mar 
Beach Club Owners Assn. v. Imperial Contracting Co. (1981) 
123 Cal.App.3d 898, 906.) A party "lack[s] standing" if he is "not 
the real party in interest." (Cloud, at p. 1004.) If a court "finds [a 
party has] no standing, it should sustain the demurrer or dismiss 
the petition." (Barefoot v. Jennings (2020) 8 Cal.5th 822, 827 
[§ 17200 standing].) 
In the specific context of section 1820, "the proposed 
conservatee, spouse, domestic partner, relative, or other 
'interested' agency, person, or friend has standing to file a 
petition for a probate conservatorship." (Conservatorship of 
John L. (2010) 48 Cal.4th 131, 144, quoting § 1820, subd. (a).) 
When interpreting those terms, " ' " ' "[o]ur fundamental task . . . 
is to determine the Legislature's intent so as to effectuate the 
law's purpose. We first examine the statutory language, giving it 
a plain and commonsense meaning. We do not examine that 
language in isolation, but in the context of the statutory 
framework as a whole in order to determine its scope and purpose 
and to harmonize the various parts of the enactment. If the 
language is clear, courts must generally follow its plain meaning 
unless a literal interpretation would result in absurd 

 
7
consequences the Legislature did not intend." ' " ' " (In re N.R. 
(2023) 15 Cal.5th 520, 538.) 
C. 
Hankin Has No Standing to Petition Under 
Section 1820 
Hankin argues he has standing to petition for 
conservatorship of Anne as an " 'interested person' " or a 
" 'friend.' " The record shows Hankin's association with Anne is 
limited to being her "neighbor" who "lives one street to the east," 
meeting her once "while [he] and his wife were taking a walk," 
and "chatt[ing] for several minutes." Hankin has cited no 
authority in which an individual with such a fleeting and tenuous 
connection to the proposed conservatee has successfully 
petitioned for conservatorship. On the contrary, well-settled law 
plainly supports the trial court's conclusion Hankin is neither an 
interested person nor a friend for purposes of section 1820. 
1. 
Hankin Is Not an "Interested Person" 
The Legislature expressly defined what it meant by 
"interested person" for purposes of the Probate Code. Section 48 
defines an " 'interested person' " as: "(1) An heir, devisee, child, 
spouse, creditor, beneficiary, and any other person having a 
property right in or claim against a trust estate or the estate of a 
decedent which may be affected by the proceeding. [¶] (2) Any 
person having priority for appointment as personal 
representative. [¶] (3) A fiduciary representing an interested 
person." (§ 48, subd. (a); see also § 20.) It also notes the definition 
"of 'interested person' as it relates to particular persons may vary 
from time to time and shall be determined according to the 
particular purposes of, and matter involved in, any proceeding." 
(§ 48, subd. (b).) For purposes of conservatorship proceedings, the 
Probate Code further provides " '[i]nterested person' includes, but 

 
8
is not limited to: [¶] (a) Any interested state, local, or federal 
entity or agency. [¶] (b) Any interested public officer or employee 
of this state or of a local public entity of this state or of the 
federal government." (§ 1424, subds. (a)–(b); see also § 1401.) 
Courts have traditionally characterized an "interested 
person" under the Probate Code as someone who could be 
financially affected by the probate proceedings. (See Estate of 
Prindle (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 119, 126–127 [insurance company 
was an interested person]; see also Tepper v. Wilkins (2017) 
10 Cal.App.5th 1198, 1206 ["simply being [an elder's] child is not 
sufficient to confer standing" where child had no "legally 
cognizable interest in her mother's revocable living trust"]; Estate 
of Sobol (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 771, 782 [interested person has 
" ' "a property right in or claim against a trust estate . . . which 
may be affected by the proceeding" ' "]; Estate of O'Brien (1966) 
246 Cal.App.2d 788, 792 ["An 'interested person' is one who has a 
pecuniary interest . . . ."].) In other probate contexts, courts have 
explained that limitation serves the important purpose of 
"prevent[ing] persons with no interest from delaying the 
settlement of the estate." (Estate of Plaut (1945) 27 Cal.2d 424, 
429 [will contest]; see also Barefoot v. Jennings, supra, 8 Cal.5th 
at p. 828 [rejecting an expansive view of § 17200 standing that 
would "allow individuals with no interest in a trust to bring a 
claim against the trust"].)  
With that in mind, we note Hankin has neither identified 
an ambiguity in the statutory definitions of "interested person," 
nor explained how he qualifies as one under those definitions or 
the cases interpreting that term. Rather, he argues he is entitled 
to standing because he seeks a conservatorship "for the personal 
protection of an incompetent," and thus his standing "should be 

 
9
evaluated according to the needs and circumstances of the 
proposed conservatee." More broadly, he asserts it would 
generally be beneficial to encourage neutral advocates "of the 
elder's needs" to come forward, particularly because few people 
are "willing to shoulder a legal action to protect [a] senior."3 On 
the other hand, Anne argues an expansive interpretation of 
section 1820 standing risks "weaponization of the 
conservatorship process" "by a nosy stranger," potentially 
subjecting elders to "debilitating, costly legal battles."  
As a court, it is not our role "to ' "sit in judgment of the 
Legislature's wisdom in balancing such competing public 
policies." ' " (Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation 
Authority v. Alameda Produce Market, LLC (2011) 52 Cal.4th 
1100, 1113.) Instead, we must " 'follow the public policy choices 
actually discernible from the Legislature's statutory 
enactments.' " (Id. at p. 1114.) The statutory language, purpose, 
and context here clearly support the trial court's conclusion 
Hankin had no standing as an "interested person" pursuant to 
section 1820. For that reason, Hankin's "argument . . . the 
statutes could or 'should have been written differently [is] more 
appropriately addressed to the Legislature' " in the first instance. 
(Skidgel v. California Unemployment Ins. Appeals Bd. (2021) 
12 Cal.5th 1, 26.) 
At bottom, Hankin's unsupported personal opinion that the 
law should give him standing is irrelevant to our determination 
of whether it actually does. (See Peake v. Underwood (2014) 
227 Cal.App.4th 428, 442–444 (Peake) [party's novel 
 
3  
That is not a concern in this case, where multiple 
concerned individuals sought to protect Anne. 

 
10
interpretation of the statute was not supported by "any 
reasonable legal principles"].) And even if a trial court has some 
discretion to allow someone to proceed as an interested party (see 
Estate of Sobol, supra, 225 Cal.App.4th at p. 782), the trial court's 
refusal to do so here was reasonable in light of Hankin's fleeting 
and tangential association with Anne. 
Thus, the trial court did not err in concluding Hankin is not 
an interested person under section 1820. 
2. 
Hankin Is Not Anne's "Friend" 
Hankin also argues he is a "friend" of Anne for purposes of 
section 1820. The Probate Code does not specifically define 
"friend." That conveys the Legislature's intention "for [the] term 
to bear its ordinary meaning." (In re N.R., supra, 15 Cal.5th at 
p. 539.) "[D]ictionaries can provide a helpful resource for 
ascertaining the common meanings attached to a word or 
phrase." (Ibid.) The Oxford English Dictionary defines "friend 
[noun]" as "[a] person with whom one has developed a close and 
informal relationship of mutual trust and intimacy; (more 
generally) a close acquaintance." (Oxford English Dict. Online 
(3d ed. 2024) <https://doi.org/10.1093/OED/7018253925> [as of 
July 2, 2025] archived at <https://perma.cc/S2D4-KCVW>.) 
Merriam-Webster Unabridged Dictionary defines "friend" as "one 
that seeks the society or welfare of another whom he or she holds 
in affection, respect, or esteem or whose companionship and 
personality are pleasurable: an intimate associate especially 
when other than a lover or relative." (Merriam-Webster 
Unabridged Dict. (Online 2025) <https://unabridged.merriam-
webster.com/unabridged/friend> [as of July 2, 2025] archived at 
<https://perma.cc/UB5V-3MKZ>.) Those definitions suggest the 

 
11
term "friend" refers to a mutual relationship with some degree of 
intimacy or closeness. 
Hankin's assertion of his ostensible friendship with Anne 
rests entirely upon his unilateral view of their purported 
relationship–for example, that "he encountered and befriended" 
Anne on one occasion while walking in his neighborhood. On the 
other hand, Anne stated "on the Court record at the hearing on 
March 14, 2023," that "she does not know Mr. Hankin and that 
he is a complete stranger." Hankin has not disputed that Anne 
does not consider him a friend. That, in combination with 
Hankin's single fleeting neighborhood interaction with her, is 
fatal to his argument.4 On this record, the trial court did not err 
in concluding Hankin was not Anne's "friend."  
Hankin proposes a novel six-factor test to determine "who 
may be considered a 'friend' of the proposed conservatee." We 
decline to adopt that idiosyncratic test, which is not grounded in 
caselaw, the Probate Code, or any ordinary definition of "friend." 
Nor has Hankin identified " 'more than one reasonable 
interpretation' " of section 1820 that would allow us to consider 
the public policy arguments he makes in favor of his test. (Sierra 
Club v. Superior Court (2013) 57 Cal.4th 157, 166.)  
3. 
Hankin Is Not Otherwise Entitled to 
Standing 
Hankin does not argue he qualifies under any of the 
remaining categories of possible petitioners listed in section 1820, 
subdivision (a). (See § 1820, subd. (a)(1)–(4).) Nevertheless, to the 
 
4  
Although we can imagine factual scenarios in which the 
term "friend" could be ambiguous, those are not presented here 
and we do not consider them. 

 
12
extent he argues standing under section 1820 widely extends to 
"any person," we do not agree. If the Legislature intended to 
extend standing under section 1820 to a broad swath of 
individuals, it could have simply given standing to "any person," 
a phrase it has used frequently in the Probate Code and other 
statutes. (See Suleman v. Superior Court (2010) 180 Cal.App.4th 
1287, 1297 & fn. 2.) Its decision not to use that term in section 
1820 suggests it did not intend to allow "any person" to petition 
for a conservatorship. (See Suleman, at pp. 1297–1298 
[Legislature's use of " 'other person on behalf of the minor' " in 
§ 1510 suggests its "definition . . . is different from" " 'any 
person' " or " 'interested person' "].) 
We are also not persuaded by Hankin's argument he is 
entitled to standing because "[p]rofessional conservators 
routinely act as petitioners" although they "hardly qualif[y] as a 
'friend' " or an interested person under the trial court's definition. 
As we have already explained, the Probate Code expressly 
includes in the definition of an " 'interested person' " "[a] 
fiduciary representing an interested person." (§ 48, subd. (a)(3).) 
And when a conservatorship "petitioner . . . is a professional 
fiduciary," the Code requires his petition to comply with certain 
additional requirements. (§ 1821, subd. (c); see § 2340.) Thus, the 
reference to professional conservators as possible petitioners in 
section 1821, subdivision (c) does not advance Hankin's 
contention that the list in section 1820, subdivision (a) is not 
exhaustive and can apply to any person.5 
 
5  
We need not resolve the precise contours of a professional 
conservator's standing now because Hankin does not contend he 
is a professional conservator. (See Burden v. Snowden (1992) 
 

 
13
D. 
We Do Not Entertain Hankin's Remaining 
Arguments 
In light of our conclusion Hankin lacks standing, we need 
not consider his arguments regarding the supposed harms 
resulting from dismissal of his petition.  
We also decline to consider arguments Hankin made for the 
first time in his reply brief, including his assertions the trial 
court made other incorrect decisions and engaged in supposed 
wrongdoing. They are forfeited. (See People v. Mickel (2016) 
2 Cal.5th 181, 197 ["Ordinarily, we do not consider arguments 
raised for the first time in a reply brief."]; Shih v. Starbucks 
Corp. (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 1063, 1071, fn. 4 [the plaintiff 
"forfeited this argument . . . by failing to raise it in her opening 
brief"].)  
II. 
The Trial Court Did Not Abuse Its Discretion in 
Imposing Sanctions 
The trial court imposed sanctions of $5,577 on Hankin for 
maintaining the Hankin Petition after Sobel's withdrawal. We 
conclude the award was reasonable.   
A. 
Standard of Review and Legal Framework 
An award of sanctions pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure 
section 128.7 is reviewed for abuse of discretion. (Peake, supra, 
227 Cal.App.4th at p. 441.) A trial court abuses its discretion 
when it exercises it " ' "in an arbitrary, capricious or patently 
absurd manner that resulted in a manifest miscarriage of 
justice." ' " (People v. Williams (2013) 58 Cal.4th 197, 270–271; 
 
2 Cal.4th 556, 570 ["Because we find the [statute] inapplicable, 
we need not and do not decide the other issues raised by the 
parties regarding" its interpretation]; cf. §§ 1821, subd. (c), 2340.) 

 
14
see also Gonzales v. Nork (1978) 20 Cal.3d 500, 507 ["as long as 
there exists 'a reasonable or even fairly debatable justification . . . 
for the [trial court's decision], such action will not be . . . set 
aside' "].) 
"[A] court may impose sanctions . . . if the court concludes 
the pleading was filed for an improper purpose or was 
indisputably without merit, either legally or factually." (Peake, 
supra, 227 Cal.App.4th at p. 440; see also Code Civ. Proc., 
§ 128.7, subds. (b)–(c).) The moving party must also "show the 
party's conduct in asserting the claim was objectively 
unreasonable," meaning " 'any reasonable attorney would agree 
that [it] is totally and completely without merit.' " (Peake, at 
p. 440.) 
B. 
The Trial Court Reasonably Determined 
Hankin's Petition Was Legally Frivolous 
The trial court determined Hankin's petition was legally 
frivolous when "Hankin . . . proceeded with the petition and 
alleged he had standing on his own behalf," after Sobel had 
withdrawn. A claim "is legally frivolous if it is 'not warranted by 
existing law or a good faith argument for the extension, 
modification, or reversal of existing law.' " (Peake, supra, 
227 Cal.App.4th at p. 440.) 
As explained above, Hankin's argument that he has 
standing as an "interested person" or "friend" to petition for 
Anne's conservatorship is unwarranted by existing law. Hankin 
cited no authority suggesting a neighbor, who once chatted for a 
few minutes with the proposed conservatee during a walk and 

 
15
whom the proposed conservatee regards as a stranger, was an 
interested person or friend for purposes of section 1820.6 
Thus, Hankin must demonstrate the trial court abused its 
discretion in concluding there was no good faith argument for the 
modification of existing law to extend standing to persons like 
him. He has not done so. Hankin argues he should have standing 
because he was "an independent voice" and sought "to protect the 
innocent." But Hankin's policy arguments to broaden 
section 1820 standing "[are] not founded on any reasonable legal 
principles." (Peake, supra, 227 Cal.App.4th at p. 443.) Moreover, 
when " 'statutory language is unambiguous, "we presume the 
Legislature meant what it said, and the plain meaning of the 
statute governs." ' " (Ibid.) Although we do not foreclose the 
possibility the language of section 1820 could be ambiguous in 
some factual circumstances not presented here, it not ambiguous 
on this record. There is thus no room for us to " ' "rewrite the law 
or give [its] words an effect different from the plain and direct 
import of the terms used." ' " (Peake, at p. 443.) 
 
6  
Hankin argues two "Law Revision Commissioners" told him 
"Probate Code § 48 [defining an interested person] did not govern 
Probate Code § 1820." (Italics omitted.) Even if Hankin's 
recollection of unspecified conversations at unspecified times is 
accurate, no reasonable attorney would believe those amounted 
to binding statements of existing law, particularly when the 
Probate Code specifically provides otherwise (and has so provided 
for nearly 35 years). (See § 20 ["the definitions in this part govern 
the construction of this code"]; cf. former § 20, added by 
Stats. 1983, ch. 842, § 21, and repealed by Stats. 1990, ch. 79, 
§ 13, eff. July 1, 1991.) 

 
16
Considering this record as a whole, we conclude the trial 
court did not abuse its discretion in awarding sanctions. Hankin's 
arguments for his own standing clearly lacked merit "under well-
settled law," he presented no "colorable legal or factual argument 
. . . supporting an extension of existing law" to those 
circumstances, and Anne's counsel provided Hankin with specific 
legal and factual grounds during the statutory safe harbor period 
demonstrating Hankin's standing arguments had no merit. 
(Peake, supra, 227 Cal.App.4th at pp. 448–449.)7 
DISPOSITION 
 
The orders are affirmed. Anne is entitled to costs on appeal. 
(See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.278(a)(4).) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RICHARDSON, J. 
 
WE CONCUR: 
 
 
LUI, P. J. 
 
 
 
CHAVEZ, J. 
 
7  
Because sanctions were warranted on that ground, we do 
not address whether Hankin's petition also had an improper 
purpose. (See Eichenbaum v. Alon (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 967, 
976 ["A violation of any of [the conditions in section 128.7, 
subdivision (b)] may give rise to sanctions."].) 
