1 
Filed 7/14/25  Conservatorship of the Person of C.S. CA3 
NOT TO BE PUBLISHED 
 
California Rules of Court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for 
publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b).  This opinion has not been certified for publication 
or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. 
 
 
 
IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
THIRD APPELLATE DISTRICT 
(Tehama) 
---- 
 
 
 
 
Conservatorship of the Person of C.S. 
C102321 
 
 
TEHAMA COUNTY PUBLIC GUARDIAN, as 
Conservator, etc., 
 
 
 
Petitioner and Respondent, 
 
 
v. 
 
C.S., 
 
 
 
Objector and Appellant. 
 
 
(Super. Ct. No. 24PR000115) 
 
 
 
 
C.S. appeals from an order issued after a bench trial appointing a conservator over 
her person and estate under the Lanterman-Petris-Short Act (LPS Act) pursuant to 
Welfare & Institutions Code section 5000 et seq.1  C.S. contends the order should be 
 
1  Further undesignated statutory references are to the Welfare and Institutions Code.  

2 
reversed because she did not knowingly and intelligently waive her right to a jury trial.  
We conclude the jury trial waiver was invalid, and therefore we will reverse the order.   
FACTS AND PROCEEDINGS 
 
Petition and Pretrial Proceedings  
On August 1, 2024, the Tehama County Public Guardian (public guardian) filed a 
petition for appointment of temporary and permanent conservator of the person and estate 
of C.S.  The public guardian filed a conservatorship investigation report along with the 
petition.  The report detailed C.S.’s history of mental illness and medication 
noncompliance, and confirmed that “[t]here is no one, at this time, willing or able to offer 
[C.S] assistance to live independently in the community,” and “[t]here are no viable 
alternatives to conservatorship at this time.”  On August 9, C.S. was served with a 
citation for conservatorship and the petition; the citation stated, “You have the right to a 
jury trial if you wish.”  On August 15, the public guardian filed the citation.   
On August 26, a hearing was held regarding the petition; C.S. was not present.  
During the hearing, C.S.’s court-appointed counsel stated:  “Your Honor, [C.S.] is 
requesting a court trial with no time waiver.”  Based on counsel’s representation, the trial 
court set a bench trial for September 18.  
In a hearing held on September 3, county counsel moved to set the trial for a 
different time on the same date due to its expert’s limited availability.  When the request 
was brought, C.S.’s counsel stated:  “I am happy to hear what County Counsel has to say, 
but I cannot change -- agree to change any date to a later date without discussing it with 
my client,” noting that C.S. had not issued a time waiver.   
On September 9, at a hearing for trial resetting, C.S.’s counsel confirmed that she 
spoke with C.S. about the upcoming trial set for September 18:  “[The matter] was 
continued a week for me to talk to my client.  [¶]  She is not waiving time.  So at this 
time we’re not agreeable to a continuance or a motion.”  Counsel added, “I believe [C.S.] 

3 
is going to be in Tehama County Court tomorrow morning for a separate matter and that 
might change how we proceed on her LPS matter.”   
The September 18 bench trial was confirmed on September 16.  The court granted 
C.S.’s counsel’s request that C.S. be personally present at trial. 
 
Bench Trial  
On September 18, 2024, trial court held the bench trial.  C.S. was present at trial, 
but the court did not advise her of her right to a jury trial, and her right to a jury trial was 
not otherwise mentioned.   
A licensed clinical psychologist testified that she twice evaluated C.S. before trial 
and reviewed records related to C.S.’s mental and physical health.  The psychologist 
opined that C.S. was gravely disabled by unspecified schizophrenia, recommended 
conservatorship, and recommended the public guardian as C.S.’s conservator.   
 
C.S. testified that at the time of trial she was living in a convalescent hospital, but 
she did not like it there.  She stated that she lived with her husband in a trailer under the 
Tehama Bridge.  She denied having schizophrenia, denied problems taking her 
medication, and stated that she did not want to be conserved or remain living in the 
convalescent hospital.  If she were not conserved, she would not go back to living under 
the bridge because the trailer had been destroyed in a hit and run accident in a parking lot.  
Instead, she would buy another vehicle to live in and to use to get to doctors’ 
appointments, get food stamps because she had Social Security disability income, go 
shopping with her daughter, cook in her camp trailer, get clothing from Wal-Mart, and 
earn money from her sno-cone business.  She added that her husband lived in a homeless 
shelter, and he did not want to get back together with her.   
The trial court found C.S. to be gravely disabled, and imposed a conservatorship 
with an expiration date of September 18, 2025.   
 
Defendant timely filed notice of appeal.  The case was fully briefed in May 2025 
and assigned to the current panel the following month.  

4 
DISCUSSION 
 
 
 
C.S. contends reversal is required because the trial court did not advise her of her 
right to a jury trial, and she did not personally waive her right to a jury trial.2  We agree.  
 
“The LPS Act governs the involuntary detention, evaluation, and treatment of 
persons who, as a result of mental disorder, are dangerous or gravely disabled.  ([Welf. & 
Inst. Code,] § 5150 et seq.)  The Act authorizes the superior court to appoint a 
conservator of the person for one who is determined to be gravely disabled ([id.,] § 5350 
et seq.), so that he or she may receive individualized treatment, supervision, and 
placement ([id.,] § 5350.1).”  (Conservatorship of John L. (2010) 48 Cal.4th 131, 142.)  
A proposed conservatee has “the right to demand a court or jury trial on the issue of 
whether the person is gravely disabled.”  (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 5350, subd. (d)(1).)  
Further, the LPS Act incorporates Probate Code section 1828, subdivision (a)(6), which 
provides that “the court shall inform the proposed conservatee of . . . [¶] . . . [¶] . . . the 
right . . . to have the matter of the establishment of the conservatorship tried by jury[.]”  
(See also Conservatorship of C.O. (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 894, 908 (C.O.) [interpreting 
Prob. Code, § 1828, subd. (a)(6) as “requir[ing] a trial court to personally advise a 
proposed conservatee of [their] jury trial right”].) 
The right to a jury trial in LPS Act commitment proceedings may be waived.  
There is a split of authority on whether a trial court must obtain a personal, on-the-record 
waiver of the jury trial right.  (K.R. v. Superior Court (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 133, 143; 
 
2  We deny C.S.’s motion to strike portions of the public guardian’s brief, but we 
disregard the portions of the brief that refer to an unpublished opinion.  (See Cal. Rules of 
Court, rule 977(a) [unpublished opinion “shall not be cited or relied upon by a court or 
party in any other action or proceeding”]; People v. Webster (1991) 54 Cal.3d 411, 428, 
fn. 4 [quoting rule 977(a)].)  

5 
compare Conservatorship of Heather W. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 378, 383-384 [holding 
such a waiver required], with C.O., supra, 71 Cal.App.5th at p. 913 [holding that, absent 
certain circumstances, counsel may validly waive proposed conservatee’s jury trial 
right].)  However, the decisions agree “that a trial court must personally advise a person 
of the statutory right to a jury trial in LPS proceedings.”  (K.R., at p. 143; see Prob. Code, 
§ 1828, subd. (a)(6); Welf. & Inst. Code, § 5350.)   
Here, it is undisputed that the trial court never advised C.S. of her right to a jury 
trial.3  C.S.’s counsel requested a bench trial on August 26, 2024, but C.S. was not 
present at that hearing.  At trial, which C.S. attended, the court did not advise C.S. of her 
right to a jury trial or ask her if she waived that right.  
We need not address whether the trial court erred by accepting C.S.’s counsel’s 
waiver of C.S.’s right to a jury trial because we conclude the court’s failure to personally 
advise C.S. of that right was prejudicial, and therefore requires reversal.  While the 
acceptance of a proposed conservatee’s waiver of the right to a jury trial “ ‘without an 
express advisement may be deemed harmless if the record affirmatively shows, based on 
the totality of the circumstances, that the . . . waiver was knowing and voluntary’ ”  
(C.O., supra, 71 Cal.App.5th at p. 918, quoting People v. Blackburn (2015) 61 Cal.4th 
1113, 1136), here the totality of the circumstances does not establish a knowing and 
voluntary waiver.    
In C.O., the appellate court concluded that C.O.’s waiver was knowing and 
voluntary on the basis that he was mailed a citation explaining his right to a jury trial, his 
 
3  The court in C.O. recognized, like here, that C.O. was advised of his right to a jury trial 
by service of a citation.  (C.O., supra, 71 Cal.App.5th at p. 909.)  The court concluded 
that advisement was not sufficient to satisfy the requirement that the court shall inform 
the proposed conservatee of the right to a jury trial.  (Ibid.; see Prob. Code, § 1828, subd. 
(a)(6).)  The court concluded the language in Probate Code section 1828, subdivision 
(a)(6) “reflect[ed] a legislative intent to ‘judicially ensure’ the proposed conservatee has 
knowledge of his or her right to a jury trial.”  (C.O., at p. 909.)   

6 
counsel informed him of his right to jury trial, he was present at the hearing when his 
counsel stated that he wished a “ ‘court trial,’ ” and he communicated with his counsel 
about how he wished to proceed.  (C.O., supra, 71 Cal.App.5th at pp. 918-919.)  The 
C.O. court distinguished Heather W. on the basis that in Heather W., the record was 
effectively silent about whether the proposed conservatee had been informed of the right 
to jury trial, whereas in C.O., the proposed conservatee had been informed of his right to 
a jury trial both in writing and by counsel.  (Id. at p. 919.)  Further, the proposed 
conservatee in C.O. “did not express any disagreement or indicate that his counsel’s 
express statement that he wanted a court trial was contrary to his wishes.”  (Ibid.)   
Here, the only evidence supporting C.S.’s knowing and voluntary waiver was the 
citation, which provided written notice of her right to a jury trial, and her counsel’s brief 
statement that “[C.S.] is requesting a court trial with no time waiver.”  But unlike in C.O., 
C.S. was not present when her attorney waived her right to a jury trial, and counsel 
provided no details about her conversation (if any) with C.S. to establish that counsel had 
informed C.S. of her right to a jury trial, or that C.S. had expressed her desire to waive 
that right.  We note that counsel’s statement that “[C.S.] is requesting a court trial” 
(italics added) was not sufficient to demonstrate that counsel had informed C.S. of her 
right to a jury trial and that counsel was relaying C.S.’s knowing and voluntary decision 
to waive a jury trial.  Rather, as C.S. points out on appeal, it is common practice for 
attorneys to state their clients’ requests or positions on various issues although the client 
himself or herself had not personally expressed that preference. 
Because the totality of the circumstances does not establish C.S.’s knowing and 
voluntary waiver of her right to a jury trial, the trial court’s failure to expressly advise 

7 
C.S. of her right to a jury trial cannot be deemed harmless.  (C.O., supra, 71 Cal.App.5th 
at p. 918.)  Accordingly, we reverse the trial court’s order.4   
DISPOSITION 
 
The order granting the petition for an LPS Act conservatorship is reversed. 
 
 
 
 
 
          /s/ 
 
 
Duarte, J. 
 
 
 
We concur: 
 
 
 
 
          /s/ 
 
Robie, Acting P. J. 
 
 
 
 
          /s/ 
 
Renner, J. 
 
4  C.S. also argues on appeal that the trial court’s imposition of a disability on her was not 
supported by substantial evidence, and the trial court abused its discretion by failing to 
consider appointing a family member as the conservator.  Because we reverse the trial 
court’s order, we need not and do not reach those issues.   

