 
 
Filed 7/17/25  Estate of Ahbez CA4/1 
NOT TO BE PUBLISHED IN OFFICIAL REPORTS 
 
California Rules of Court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for 
publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b).  This opinion has not been certified for publication 
or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115.   
 
COURT OF APPEAL, FOURTH APPELLATE DISTRICT 
 
DIVISION ONE 
 
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
 
 
 
Estate of EDEN AHBEZ, Deceased. 
 
 
DEBRA GUESS, 
 
 
Petitioner and Respondent, 
 
 
v. 
 
JOSEPH ROMERSA, 
 
 
Objector and Appellant. 
 
  D085918 
 
 
  (Super. Ct. No. PRIN2200674) 
 
 
APPEAL from an order of the Superior Court of Riverside County, 
Russell Moore Velasquez, Judge.  Affirmed. 
 
Fox Rothschild, Sean R. Kenney, and Eric Andrew Bevan, for Petitioner 
and Respondent. 
 
Romersa Law and Julie M. Romersa, for Objector and Appellant. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
 
Respondent Debra Guess filed a petition seeking to establish ownership 
of certain property, including copyrights, from Eden Ahbez’s trust (Ahbez 

 
2 
 
Trust), pursuant to Probate Code,1 section 850.  Joseph Romersa, beneficiary 
and successor trustee to the Ahbez Trust and executor of Ahbez’s estate, 
objected to the petition.  The probate court found that Guess owned the 
copyrights and granted the petition.  
 
Romersa appeals on three grounds.  First, he contends Guess did not 
have standing to bring the petition.  Second, he argues the probate court 
lacked subject matter jurisdiction over the petition.  Third, he asserts the 
probate court’s rulings were an abuse of discretion and lacked evidentiary 
support.  We reject each ground and affirm. 
 
II. BACKGROUND 
 
During his life, Eden Ahbez composed a substantial catalog of music, 
including the song “Nature Boy,” recorded by Nat King Cole in the late 1940s.  
Ahbez copyrighted his compositions.  The copyrights are recorded with the 
Library of Congress, while the royalties, almost all from Nature Boy, are 
managed by The American Society of Composers, Authors & Publishers 
(ASCAP).  The royalties from Nature Boy are significant. 
 
In 1979, David Janowiak, Guess’s stepfather, met Ahbez in Desert Hot 
Springs, California, while Ahbez lived in a motel in Indio, California.  At the 
time, Janowiak sold real estate.  Janowiak initially would assist Ahbez with 
tasks.  They eventually became friends.  Joseph Romersa is a producer and 
sound engineer who worked with Ahbez on Ahbez’s music during the last 
seven years of Ahbez’s life.  
 
In March 1992, Ahbez executed a will.  He named Janowiak executor 
and bequeathed to him all Ahbez’s property, including the copyrights to his 
 
1  
All subsequent statutory references are to the Probate Code unless 
otherwise specified. 

 
3 
 
songs.  Later that year, Ahbez formed the Ahbez Trust, into which he placed 
all his real and personal property, including the copyrights.  He named 
Janowiak as trustee and Romersa as successor trustee, to serve if Janowiak 
was unable.  Ahbez also named both Janowiak and Romersa as beneficiaries, 
with Janowiak to receive all Ahbez’s real and personal property, except “the 
musical instruments, tapes, records, etc.” in Romersa’s possession.  
 
In 1995, Ahbez died in a car accident.  Janowiak did not probate 
Ahbez’s will but submitted documents to the Library of Congress to transfer 
to himself Ahbez’s copyrights.  Janowiak then began collecting royalties from 
the copyrights.  He deposited the copyrights, and royalties, in the Janowiak 
Family Trust.  Janowiak died in 2012, and his wife, Geraldine, died in 2022.  
Guess, as successor trustee of Janowiak’s trust, then took control of the 
copyrights and began collecting royalties.  
 
In 2022, 27 years after Ahbez’s death, Romersa filed a petition for 
probate of Ahbez’s will.  (§ 8000.)  Following briefing and a hearing, the 
probate court granted Romersa’s petition, ordered the will into probate, and 
named Romersa as executor.  
 
In that probate action, Guess filed the petition to confirm trust 
property.  In response, Romersa filed a motion to strike the petition under the 
anti-SLAPP statute,2 followed by an opposition to the petition.  The court 
 
2  
“Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16 provides a procedure for the 
early dismissal of what are commonly known as SLAPP suits (strategic 
lawsuits against public participation)—litigation of a harassing nature, 
brought to challenge the exercise of protected free speech rights.”  (Fahlen v. 
Sutter Central Valley Hospitals (2014) 58 Cal.4th 655, 665, fn. 3.) 

 
4 
 
denied the anti-SLAPP motion and set a hearing on the petition.  Romersa 
chose not to appear at the hearing, either personally or through counsel.3  
 
Based on the entirety of the record, the court found that Ahbez’s 
property transferred to Janowiak pursuant to the Ahbez Trust and then to 
Guess as Janowiak’s successor trustee and beneficiary of the Janowiak Trust.  
Accordingly, the trial court issued an order concluding that “[t]he entirety of 
the Eden Ahbez music catalog, [including] all copyrights and other 
intellectual property rights owned by Eden Ahbez as of 10-14-1992, and all 
royalties derived therefrom, are the property of, and are payable to Debra 
Guess as trustee of” Janowiak’s trust.  
 
Romersa timely appealed.  
III. DISCUSSION 
A.  Guess Had Standing to Bring the Petition 
 
Romersa first argues Guess lacked standing to bring the petition 
because Guess did not meet the requirements of section 850, subdivision 
(a)(3)(A).4  We disagree. 
 
1.  Requirements for Bringing a Section 850 Petition 
 
As relevant here, a trustee or “any interested person” has standing to 
bring a petition under section 850 under specific circumstances, including:  
(1) “[w]here the trustee is in possession of, or holds title to, real or personal 
property, and the property, or some interest, is claimed to belong to another,” 
or (2) “[w]here the trustee has a claim to real or personal property, title to or 
 
3  
During the hearing, the probate court contacted Romersa’s counsel by 
telephone.  She confirmed Romersa would not be appearing due to what he 
perceived as deficiencies in notice.  
 
4  
Romersa also argues Guess lacked standing to bring the petition under 
section 17200.  Because Guess had standing under section 850, we do not 
separately address whether she had standing under section 17200. 

 
5 
 
possession of which is held by another.”  (§ 850, subds. (a)(3)(A) & (B).)  
Section 48 defines an “interested person” as “any [ ] person having a property 
right in or claim against a trust estate or the estate of a decedent which may 
be affected by the proceeding.”  (§ 48, subd. (a)(1).) 
 
If an individual meeting these requirements seeks an order “concerning 
the transfer of property of the trust” the individual must do so by filing a 
section 850 petition.  (§ 17200.1; Mota v. Superior Court (2007) 
156 Cal.App.4th 351, 356.) 
 
2.  Standard of Review 
 
“Standing is a question of law that courts typically review de novo.”  
(Loeber v. Lakeside Joint School District (2024) 103 Cal.App.5th 552, 570.)  
However, “standing for purposes of the Probate Code is a fluid concept 
dependent on the nature of the proceeding before the trial court and the 
parties’ relationship to the proceeding, as well as to the trust (or estate).”  
(Arman v. Bank of America (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 697, 702–703.) 
 
Section 48 explains that “[t]he meaning of ‘interested person’ as it 
relates to particular persons may vary from time to time and shall be 
determined according to the particular purposes of, and matter involved in, 
any proceeding.”  (§ 48, subd. (b).)  “Because the determination of whether a 
party is an interested person pursuant to Probate Code section 48 is subject 
to the probate court’s discretion, we apply the deferential abuse of discretion 
standard in reviewing [that] determination.”  (Estate of Prindle (2009) 
173 Cal.App.4th 119, 126.) 

 
6 
 
 
Whether a petitioner qualifies for the section 850 scenarios is a 
question of fact subject to substantial evidence review.  (Estate of Myers 
(2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 434, 440.)5 
 
3.  Guess Was an “Interested Person” 
 
First, the probate court did not abuse its discretion by concluding 
Guess was an interested person.  Guess, as Janowiak’s successor trustee and 
beneficiary, had a property right in, or claim against, the Ahbez Trust.  
Janowiak was the named beneficiary of the Ahbez Trust with respect to the 
copyrights.  After Ahbez’s death, Janowiak submitted the will and trust 
documents to the Library of Congress to transfer ownership of the copyrights 
to himself and, thereafter, collected royalties.  Notably, Romersa confirmed at 
a hearing on his probate petition his belief that Janowiak was “in charge” or 
“in control” of the copyrights in question after Ahbez’s death.  Then, after the 
death of Janowiak and his wife, Guess took possession of the copyrights as 
trustee and beneficiary of the Janowiak trust.  At the time Romersa initiated 
the probate proceedings, Guess was collecting royalties.6  
 
4.  Guess Satisfied the Remaining Requirements of Section 850 
 
As detailed supra, an interested person may bring a section 850 
petition under either of two opposite situations:  (1) the trustee is in 
possession of, or holds title to, the subject property, and the property is 
claimed by another individual; or (2) another individual holds title to, or 
 
5  
Despite the various applicable standards of review, for the reasons 
detailed post, the probate court’s finding that Guess had standing to bring the 
petition must be affirmed under any standard. 
 
6  
During the pendency of the probate proceedings, Romersa caused 
ASCAP to stop sending royalty payments to Guess.  

 
7 
 
possession of the property, and the property is claimed by the trustee.  (§ 850, 
subd. (a)(3)(A) & (B).)   
 
Guess purportedly brought the petition under section 850, subdivision 
(a)(3)(A), and the parties’ arguments focus on that provision.  In his reply, 
however, Romersa acknowledges an individual may bring a petition 
regarding trust property under either part (A) or (B) of subdivision (a)(3).  
Substantial evidence supports the probate court’s finding that Guess met the 
requirements of section 850, under one or both provisions. 
 
Specifically, in the petition, Guess asserted that Ahbez transferred “all 
intellectual property rights” to the copyrights to his trust and sought the 
probate court’s determination of whether Janowiak took ownership of those 
intellectual property rights as trust beneficiary.  For standing purposes, we 
treat as true Guess’s properly pled allegations.  (Barefoot v. Jennings (2020) 
8 Cal.5th 822, 827.)  It follows that either Guess held the titles to the 
copyrights, or they remained in Ahbez’s trust, and Romersa, as trustee, held 
those titles.  (See Greenspan v. LADT, LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 486, 522 
[trustee holds legal title to property owned by trust].)  Either way, 
substantial evidence supports a finding that Guess or the trustee held the 
titles to the copyrights, as required by section 850, subdivisions (a)(3)(A) and 
(B). 
 
Similarly, substantial evidence supports a finding that Guess satisfied 
the requirement under either provision that she or the trustee claimed the 
property.  Guess’s stated purpose in filing the petition was “to assert her legal 
claim to [the copyrights] and specifically to quiet a competing claim to the 
intellectual property asserted by . . . Romersa.”  On the other hand, before 
Guess filed the petition, Romersa identified himself in the probate 

 
8 
 
proceedings as trustee and asserted that the Ahbez Trust “left the 
[copyrights] either outside of the trust or to Joe Romersa.”   
 
As Guess satisfied all the requirements of section 850, subdivision 
(a)(3), whether under subpart (A) or (B), the probate court did not err by 
finding Guess had standing to bring the petition. 
B.  Romersa Has Not Shown Any Defect in Notice 
 
Next, Romersa argues the trial court lacked subject matter jurisdiction 
over the petition because Guess did not provide sufficient notice of the 
hearing to all indispensable parties, namely Romersa in his capacities as 
trustee of the Ahbez Trust and personal representative of Ahbez’s estate.  
Guess contends any lack of notice was not a jurisdictional issue, and Romersa 
received notice.  As we shall explain, Romersa’s argument is unpersuasive, 
regardless of whether his claim is characterized as a challenge to the probate 
court’s subject matter jurisdiction or an assertion of a facial defect in notice.7 
 
1.  Section 851’s Notice Requirement 
 
Section 851 provides the notice requirement for a petition filed under 
Section 850.  As relevant here, pursuant to section 851, “[a]t least 30 days 
prior to the day of the hearing,” the petitioner must serve notice of the 
hearing and a copy of the petition in compliance with Civil Procedure Code 
 
7  
In his reply brief, Romersa asserts for the first time that the alleged 
defects in notice deprived him of due process under the California 
Constitution.  “[W]e do not consider arguments raised for the first time in 
a reply brief.”  (Doe v. McLaughlin (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 640, 657; see Las 
Lomas Land Co., LLC v. City of Los Angeles (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 837, 855 
[declining to consider new due process argument raised for the first time in a 
reply brief].) 

 
9 
 
section 413.10 on “[t]he personal representative, conservator, guardian, or 
trustee as appropriate.”  (§ 851, subd. (a).)8 
 
2.  Standard of Review 
 
We review notice under section 851 de novo, whether based on a 
challenge to subject matter jurisdiction or a facial defect in notice.  (Corrales 
v. California Gambling Control Com. (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 286, 302  
[“ ‘ “Where the evidence is not in dispute, a determination of subject matter 
jurisdiction is a legal question subject to de novo review.” ’ ”]; Ramos v. 
Homeward Residential, Inc. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1434, 1441 [“[W]e review 
the trial court’s finding of a facial defect in service de novo.”].) 
 
3.  Romersa Shows No Defect in Notice 
 
Even assuming notice on all indispensable parties was required to 
confer upon the probate court subject matter jurisdiction over the petition, 
and further assuming Guess was required to give notice to Romersa both as 
trustee of the Ahbez Trust and personal representative of the estate, 
Romersa’s arguments that notice was defective are unpersuasive.  
 
As to Romersa as trustee, his general appearances in the action cured 
any alleged defects in notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 410.50, subd. (a); Fireman’s 
Fund Ins. Co. v. Sparks Construction, Inc. (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1135, 
1145.)   
 
8  
Section 851, subdivision (b) provides, in relevant part:  “Except for those 
persons given notice pursuant to subdivision (a), notice of the hearing, 
together with a copy of the petition, shall be given . . . as provided in Section 
17203 if the matter concerns a trust . . . .”  (§ 851, subd. (b), italics added.)  
Romersa does not argue that subdivision (b) applies here with respect to 
notice in his capacities as trustee or personal representative.  Based on its 
plain language, it appears subdivision (b) does not apply because Romersa 
was due notice under subdivision (a). 

 
10 
 
 
On February 15, 2024, Guess provided notice of the hearing and a copy 
of the petition to Romersa, without specifically identifying Romersa’s 
capacity.  After this notice, Romersa made two general appearances:  First, 
by filing an anti-SLAPP motion.  And, second by filing an opposition to the 
petition.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1014 [general appearance made when party 
filed a notice of motion to strike]; Sunrise Financial, LLC v. Superior Court 
(2019) 32 Cal.App.5th 114, 125 [“[O]pposing a motion other than on 
jurisdictional grounds normally constitutes a general appearance.”].)  Within 
these pleadings, Romersa did not expressly limit his appearances and/or 
arguments to any interest solely as an individual.  In fact, he affirmatively 
identified himself as “the successor trustee” and “the sole successor trustee.”  
He also acknowledged Guess could have been proceeding against him “as 
successor trustee of the Eden Ahbez Trust.”   
 
In making these general appearances, Romersa was representing his 
interests as trustee, not merely as an individual.  (See Creed v. Schultz (1983) 
148 Cal.App.3d 733, 740 [“ ‘An act of a defendant . . . which may reasonably 
be construed to imply that the court has, in [the] action, acquired jurisdiction 
of the person of the defendant, will be equivalent to an appearance.’ ”].)  
Having made these general appearances under the role of trustee, he may not 
now challenge the sufficiency of the notice on him in that capacity.  (Ibid.   
[“ ‘As a rule one cannot avail himself of the advantage of being a party and 
escape the responsibilities.’ ”].) 

 
11 
 
 
We now turn to Romersa as the personal representative of the estate. 
On May 1, 2024, Guess provided timely notice of the hearing and a copy of 
the petition to Romersa in his capacity as executor.9  
 
Accordingly, Romersa cannot show that notice was defective. 
C.  Romersa Has Failed to Establish Any Other Error 
 
Romersa’s final argument is unclear.  He lists purported abuses of 
discretion and argues that “the sheer volume of abuse warrants a de novo 
review.”  In addition, he appears to challenge, generally, the sufficiency of the 
evidence to support the court’s ultimate order on the petition.  We find no 
error. 
 
1.  Romersa’s Abuse of Discretion Arguments Fail 
 
From what we can discern, Romersa asserts the probate court abused 
its discretion in several ways.  First, he argues the court deprived him of 
sufficient time to respond to the petition after denying his anti-SLAPP 
motion.  Second, he challenges the court’s decision to grant the petition as a 
punitive measure for Romersa’s failure to appear at the hearing.  Third, he 
argues the court ignored the law and issued an insufficiently descriptive or 
overbroad order.  Fourth, he contends the court set an excessive bond when it 
appointed Romersa executor of Ahbez’s estate.  
 
To the extent Romersa argues the probate court gave him insufficient 
time to respond to the petition and granted the petition as a form of sanction, 
his arguments are not supported by the record.  
 
9  
The February 15, 2024 and May 1, 2024 notices of hearing and proofs of 
service filed with the probate court are not accompanied by a copy of the 
petition.  However, the proofs of service are signed under penalty of perjury 
and indicate that copies of the petition were served along with the notices of 
hearing.  

 
12 
 
 
Romersa argued before the probate court that he had 30 days from the 
date of denial of his anti-SLAPP motion to answer the petition.  The court 
denied the anti-SLAPP motion on April 30, 2024, and set a hearing on the 
petition for July 26, 2024, well beyond the 30-day period for Romersa to 
respond to the petition.  
 
As to sanctions, although the court recognized that granting the 
petition would be the “appropriate sanction” for Romersa’s failure to appear, 
ultimately, it did not grant the petition as a sanction.  As discussed post, the 
court granted the petition based on evidence that Guess was the owner of the 
copyrights.  In fact, Guess withdrew as moot her request for an order to show 
cause regarding sanctions following entry of the order granting the petition.  
Rather than granting the petition as a form of sanction, the court stated its 
intent to sanction Romersa’s counsel in an amount “not to exceed $500.”   
 
To the extent Romersa questions the probate court’s adherence to the 
law and the contents of its order, those claims are unsupported by sufficient 
facts, authority, or cogent argument.  (County of Sacramento v. Singh (2021) 
65 Cal.App.5th 858, 861; Hearn Pacific Corp. v. Second Generation Roofing, 
Inc. (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 117, 150.)   
 
To the extent Romersa purports to challenge the bond amount and the 
court’s consideration of “elder abuse and undue influence,” he raised those 
issues in the probate court only with respect to his petition for probate.  Since 
he did not raise those issues below with respect to Guess’s petition, we do not 
consider them here.  (See Mendoza v. Trans Valley Transport (2022) 
75 Cal.App.5th 748, 770 [finding an undeveloped argument raised in a 
“cursory manner” and buried within another argument did not adequately 
raise the issue in the trial court or preserve the issue for appeal].) 

 
13 
 
 
2.  Sufficiency of Evidence 
 
Romersa also appears to argue, generally, that the probate court’s 
order granting the petition is not supported by sufficient evidence.  To this 
end, he maintains the probate court was required to find clear and convincing 
evidence that ownership of the copyrights transferred out of Ahbez’s estate.  
Even accepting Romersa’s assertion that some, or all, of the probate court’s 
factual findings underlying its order on the petition had to be supported by 
clear and convincing evidence, the court’s order was sufficiently supported. 
 
When a court of appeal “review[s] a [trial court’s] finding that a fact has 
been proved by clear and convincing evidence, the question before [it] is 
whether the record as a whole contains substantial evidence from which a 
reasonable fact finder could have found it highly probable that the fact was 
true.”  (Conservatorship of O.B. (2020) 9 Cal.5th 989, 995–996.)  “Consistent 
with well-established principles governing review for sufficiency of 
the evidence, in making this assessment the appellate court must view the 
record in the light most favorable to the prevailing party below and give due 
deference to how the trier of fact may have evaluated the credibility of 
witnesses, resolved conflicts in the evidence, and drawn reasonable 
inferences from the evidence.”  (Id. at p. 996.) 
 
Here, substantial evidence supports the probate court’s finding that the 
copyrights at issue passed through the Ahbez Trust to Janowiak and, 
through his trust to Guess.  Specifically, the court had a copy of the trust 
instrument which placed the contested copyrights into the Ahbez Trust and 
provided they were to pass to Janowiak upon Ahbez’s death.  It also had 
copies of Ahbez’s will and trust documents that Janowiak sent to the Library 
of Congress for purposes of transferring ownership of the copyrights.  In 
addition, the court had copies of documents establishing the David J. and 

 
14 
 
Geraldine E. Janowiak Living Trust, which placed the contested copyrights 
into that trust and named Guess as successor trustee and sole beneficiary in 
the event of the deaths of Janowiak and his wife.  Finally, the court had 
copies of death certificates for Janowiak and his wife.  
IV. DISPOSITION 
 
The probate court’s order granting the petition is affirmed.  Costs on 
appeal are awarded to respondent, Debra Guess.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RUBIN, J. 
 
WE CONCUR: 
 
 
 
 
 
O'ROURKE, Acting P. J. 
 
 
 
 
 
BUCHANAN, J. 
 
 

