 
Filed 7/1/25  Nelson v. Huhn CA2/8 
NOT TO BE PUBLISHED IN THE OFFICIAL REPORTS 
 
California Rules of Court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions 
not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b).  This opinion 
has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. 
 
IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
 
SECOND APPELLATE DISTRICT 
 
DIVISION EIGHT 
 
KAREN NELSON, Individually 
and as Trustee, etc., 
 
 
Plaintiff and Respondent, 
 
 
v. 
 
ERIC HUHN, 
 
 
Defendant and Appellant. 
 
 
B330596 
 
 
(Los Angeles County 
 
Super. Ct. No. 22STCP04212) 
 
 
 
APPEAL from an order and judgment of the Superior Court 
of Los Angeles County, Richard L. Fruin, Jr., Judge.  Reversed 
and remanded with directions. 
 
 
Bidna & Keys, Richard D. Keys and Howard M. Bidna for 
Defendant and Appellant. 
 
 
Lagerlof and Robert A. Bailey for Plaintiff and Respondent. 
_________________________ 

2 
INTRODUCTION 
Following their parents' death, disputes arose between a 
brother and sister about the administration of their parents' trust 
and the value of the trust's assets, including two real properties 
located in California.  The trust required an equalizing payment 
be made to the brother by the sister, but the siblings disagreed as 
to the amount, leading to litigation in the state of Washington.  
The siblings participated in mediation pursuant to the Annotated 
Revised Code of Washington (ARCW) section 11.96A.300 
conducted by a Washington mediator, resulting in settlement.  
The settlement term sheet resolved the pending disputes between 
the siblings, including the appraisal process for determining the 
value of the two real properties.  The settlement term sheet 
expressly specified the "valuation shall be based . . . on the 
highest and best use of the property using the Uniform 
Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice." 
The siblings' mutually agreed-upon appraiser prepared and 
emailed the reports but, within days, notified the siblings that 
the report for one of the properties is erroneous and incomplete 
as a result of a subordinate's mistake.  The sister argued the 
appraiser's reports are "final and binding" and filed a petition in 
California requesting that they be confirmed as arbitration 
awards pursuant to the California Arbitration Act (CAA).  The 
brother argued he never agreed to arbitration, let alone 
arbitration under California law, and the appraiser's report is not 
valid or complete as the appraiser did not utilize the Uniform 
Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice (USPAP) in 
preparing the report. 
The trial court tentatively denied the sister's motion to 
confirm the appraisals as arbitration awards but ultimately 

3 
granted it.  The trial court denied the brother's request for 
reconsideration. 
 
Because we find the parties' settlement term sheet did not 
amount to an agreement to arbitrate, we reverse the judgment 
and underlying order granting the motion to confirm.  We 
remand with instructions to the trial court to return the matter 
to the appraiser to complete the appraisal pursuant to the terms 
of the parties' settlement term sheet. 
FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND 
I. 
The Trust 
In 1998, Walter and Betty Huhn created The Betty B. 
Huhn and Walter R. Huhn Trust of 1998 (the Trust).  Walter died 
in 2014.  In 2017, Betty—a Los Angeles County resident at the 
time—amended and restated the Trust.  In 2021, Betty died. 
The Trust provides that upon the surviving spouse's 
(Betty's) death, the assets of the Trust are to be distributed to 
children Eric Huhn and Karen Nelson. 
Relevant to this appeal, article seven of the Trust provides 
that the duplex property located at 3910 East Blvd. in Los 
Angeles, California (L.A. duplex) shall be distributed to Karen, 
and the single-family residence located at 665 Chaparro Road in 
Covina, California (Covina property) shall be distributed to Eric.  
Article seven section D(1)(c) of the Trust expressly states Betty 
was "aware that those properties will have different fair market 
value and want[ed] her total estate to be shared equally between 
[Karen] and [Eric].  Therefore she require[d] the properties to be 
appraised on her death and sufficient Trust assets to be given to 
the beneficiary receiving the lesser valued property above to 
equalize the gift as distributed.  For example, if the [L.A. duplex] 

4 
is valued at $1,000,000 and the Covina property is valued at 
$500,000, then $500,000 of Trust assets would be transferred to 
[Eric] to equalize this distribution." 
Article eleven of the Trust contains a "Choice-of-Law 
Clause": "The validity of this trust and the construction of its 
beneficiary provisions shall be governed by the laws of the State 
of California in force from time to time.  This paragraph shall 
apply regardless of any change of residence of a Trustee or any 
beneficiary, or the appointment of a substitution of a Trustee 
residing or doing business in another state." 
Upon Betty's death, Karen became the successor trustee by 
operation of the Trust.  On April 7, 2021, Karen sent Eric a 
"NOTIFICATION BY TRUSTEE PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA 
PROBATE CODE SECTION 16061.7."  In the notification, Karen 
specified both her address and the "address of the principal place 
of business of the administration of the trust" as "2011 
Drummond Drive, Gig Harbor, WA 98322." 
II. 
Washington Litigation and Resulting Settlement 
Disputes arose between Eric and Karen over Karen's 
administration of the Trust, the distribution of non-real property 
assets, and the value of the Trust's real property assets. 
On November 24, 2021, Eric served Karen with a notice of 
mediation "pursuant to RCW 11.96A.300"1 and requested 
mediation. 
On February 1, 2022, Eric initiated litigation against 
Karen in Pierce County Superior Court in Washington and filed a 
 
1  
"RCW 11.96A.300" refers to section 11.96A.300 of the 
Annotated Revised Code of Washington—"Mediation Procedure," 
which is in Chapter 11.96 entitled "Trust and Estates Dispute 
Resolution." 

5 
petition to compel mediation (In re Betty B. Huhn Trust, case No. 
22-4-00215-1).  Eric served Karen with another notice of 
mediation per Washington law; the notice specified this "matter 
must be resolved using the mediation procedures of RCW 
11.96A.300 unless the court determines at the hearing that 
mediation shall not apply pursuant to RCW 11.96A.300(3)." 
On February 28, 2022, Eric and Karen agreed to 
participate in mediation and continued the hearing on Eric's 
petition.  On April 20, 2022, the parties participated in mediation 
with Stew Cogan in King County, Washington.  Mediation 
continued on April 25, 2022, when the parties entered into and 
executed the settlement term sheet totaling five pages, which set 
forth the parties' agreement resolving their disputes over Karen's 
administration of the Trust. 
The settlement term sheet included detailed specifics 
regarding the agreed upon "process for determination of the value 
of the LA and Covina properties."  New appraisals of the two 
properties were to be prepared by a mutually agreeable MAI2 
appraiser.  The appraiser's "determination of value for the 
properties shall be final and binding on the parties as to the 
value of properties."  The appraiser "shall conduct the appraisals 
pursuant to written instructions mutually agreed upon by 
counsel for parties" including the instruction—"The valuation 
shall be based on date of death and based on the highest and best 
use of the property using the Uniform Standards of Professional 
Appraisal Practice."  The instructions also specify that the 
 
2  
"MAI" signifies the appraiser is a Member of the Appraisal 
Institute, considered the top designation in the appraisal 
profession.  (Forty-Niner Truck Plaza, Inc. v. Union Oil Co. (1997) 
58 Cal.App.4th 1261, 1268, fn. 2.) 

6 
parties shall provide the appraiser with information and 
documents such as "a list of improvements/repairs made since the 
date of death," "identification of any easements, encroachments, 
encumbrances, rent control," and "rental income and expenses for 
2018–February 5, 2021."The equalization payment must be made 
by Karen to Eric "[w]ithin 60 days of the finalization of the 
appraisals."  The parties "shall use all reasonable and good faith 
efforts to cooperate with the other party necessary to complete all 
the tasks set forth above."  Eric "will dismiss the Petition to 
Compel Mediation within 3 court days of execution of this 
agreement." 
Finally, the settlement term sheet provided "[a]ll 
controversies, claims, disputes, questions of interpretation and 
counterclaims arising under or relating to the Settlement Term 
Sheet . . . shall be first raised via written notice to opposing 
counsel.  If the parties are unable to resolve the dispute 
informally in 10 days, then the dispute shall be submitted to 
mediation with Stew Cogan.  If the parties are unable to resolve 
their dispute through mediation, the matter may be submitted to 
a court of competent jurisdiction." 
III. 
Appraisal Reports 
On June 13, 2022, both parties agreed upon and retained 
Beth Finestone (Finestone), an MAI appraiser and the managing 
director of Integra Realty Resources, to serve as the appointed 
appraiser of the L.A. duplex and Covina property.  Finestone's 
engagement letter provided she would appraise the properties as 
of the date of Betty's death—February 5, 2021.  The engagement 
letter also provided the appraisals would be conducted pursuant 
to the instructions in the settlement term sheet and referred to 
the instruction that the valuation be "based on the highest and 

7 
best use of the property using the Uniform Standards of 
Professional Appraisal Practice." 
Finestone's engagement letter specified that the resulting 
reports will include "investigations into comparable SFR sale 
properties that would be relevant in the valuation process."  It 
included a list of "Information Requested for the Appraisal" from 
the parties including a summary of competed renovations, 
information concerning the development history of the properties 
within the last 10 years, and copies of any and all leases in place 
at the date of value.  Finestone's engagement letter stated: "Upon 
completion of my analysis, I would prepare an appraisal report 
for each property in full compliance with USPAP." 
On October 7, 2022, Finestone served lengthy appraisal 
reports for the L.A. duplex and the Covina property.  The 
137-page appraisal report for the L.A. duplex used the sales 
comparison approach and income approach; it included a 
summary of comparable rentals as well as comparable improved 
sales.  The report included a reconciliation of the two approaches 
and provided a "final opinion of value" of $1.35 million.  The 100-
page appraisal report for the Covina property used the sales 
comparison approach and included a summary of comparable 
improved sales; it provided an opinion of value of $730,000.  Both 
appraisal reports state: "The appraisal is intended to conform 
with the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice 
(USPAP) and the Code of Professional Ethics and Standards of 
Professional Appraisal Practice of the Appraisal Institute." 
On October 12, 2022, Eric's counsel emailed Finestone (and 
copied Karen's counsel), requesting Finestone to "give the reports 
a second review with particular attention to the highest and best 
use of the properties, including associated comparables for those 

8 
uses, as that is a term of our Settlement Agreement."  (Italics 
added.)  Eric's independently retained MAI appraiser Kevin 
Donahue (Donahue) asked Finestone about certain comparable 
sales that were relevant but not included in the appraisal report.  
Finestone indicated she would reexamine her appraisal based on 
this information.  Finestone requested information about the L.A. 
duplex, including "copies of the actual leases that were in place 
as of the date of value," "a summary of when each tenant that 
was in place on the date of value, first occupied/leased the space," 
and whether "the property owner, prior to [the] date of value, 
filed any paperwork with the Los Angeles Housing Department 
to enable them to begin the redevelopment process." 
On October 18, 2022, Karen's counsel emailed Finestone 
(and copied Huhn's counsel) and "object[ed] to additional work 
being done on this." 
On October 20, 2022, Finestone emailed both parties' 
attorneys and stated "information has recently come to light that 
may have an impact on our opinion of value for the [L.A. duplex].  
As a result, we are in the process of reviewing the report and do 
not consider our assignment complete.  To complete the 
assignment, we need [Karen's] responses to the following" and 
requested copies of "the actual leases that were in place as of the 
date of value" and other information/paperwork.  (Italics added.) 
During a telephone call on October 27, 2022, Finestone 
informed both parties' counsel that her October 7, 2022 appraisal 
report did not include comparable sales data that is relevant to 
determining the market value of the L.A. duplex and that its 
"inclusion . . . would make a material difference in [her] opinion 
of the market value for the [L.A. duplex]."  Finestone confirmed 
that the second appraiser in her office, Thomas Richardson (also 

9 
an MAI), assisted her in the research necessary for the appraisals 
but neglected to include a recent sale of a comparable property in 
the area. 
Karen "refused" to provide the additional information 
requested by Finestone. 
The parties participated in another mediation with Stew 
Cogan of King County, Washington on November 28, 2022.  No 
resolution was reached. 
Two weeks later, on December 14, 2022, Eric filed a civil 
complaint against Karen in Mason County Superior Court in 
Washington (Eric Huhn v. Karen Nelson, case No. 22-2-98675-
23), and sought declaratory relief that Finestone's October 7, 
2022 appraisal of the L.A. duplex was not final or binding 
because Finestone said it was not complete and because the 
process utilized by Finestone did not comport with the parties' 
settlement term sheet.  Eric requested the trial court order Karen 
"to provide the information requested by the appraiser and to 
cooperate in concluding the agreed upon appraisal process and 
calculation of the equalizing payment owed to Eric." 
IV. 
Karen's Petition to Confirm Appraisal 
Concurrently, on November 29, 2022, Karen filed a petition 
in Los Angeles Superior Court to confirm the October 7, 2022 
appraisals as final and binding arbitration awards pursuant to 
Code of Civil Procedure3 section 1280 et seq.  On December 7, 
2022, Karen filed a motion to confirm the appraisals as binding 
and final awards "pursuant to a settlement agreement between 
 
3  
Undesignated statutory references are to the Code of Civil 
Procedure. 

10 
the parties."  In support of the motion, Karen submitted her own 
declaration and that of her counsel Robert Bailey. 
V. 
Eric's Request to Stay or Dismiss Karen's Petition 
On January 11, 2023, Eric filed a request to dismiss 
Karen's petition to confirm the appraisals or, alternatively, to 
stay proceedings pending resolution of the Washington litigation.  
He argued, "Instead of allowing the appraiser to complete her 
appraisal or refund her fees, [Karen] filed the petition in 
[California] seeking to confirm the incomplete/unfinished 
appraisals as a final and binding arbitration award under Code of 
Civil Procedure § 1285."  Eric argued Washington law should 
apply and not California law because "[u]nlike California, the 
[A]rbitration [A]ct enacted by the State of Washington does not 
include 'agreements providing for valuations, appraisals, and 
similar proceedings' within the definition of 'agreements' covered 
by its arbitration statutes [(Wash. Rev. Code Ann. § 7.04A.010 et 
seq.)]. "  In support, he submitted the declarations of Finestone, 
Donahue, and his counsel Teresa R. Byers. 
Finestone's declaration provides: 
It was "common practice" for Finestone to "work[] closely 
with a second appraiser in [her] office to assist [her] in the 
research necessary for the completion of this appraisal" and MAI 
appraiser Thomas Richardson's work "was completed under [her] 
direction."  She stated: "Soon after I sent the . . . October 7, 2022 
appraisals, I received a phone call from Kevin Donahue, MAI, 
who inquired as to whether or not I was aware of a recent sale of 
a property at 3920 East Boulevard.  The sale of this property was 
not within the set of potential comparables that Mr. Richardson 
or I had identified during the course of our research."  Finestone 
determined that the sale of this property "would have been used 

11 
as a comparable had I known about it when I prepared my 
appraisal report; and that the inclusion and analysis of this 
property sale as a comparable in my appraisal would make a 
material difference in my opinion of the market value for the 
[L.A. duplex]."  In researching the sale, Finestone "also identified 
other sales that were not initially identified" and "indicate[d] that 
the actual market value of the [L.A. duplex] is higher than the 
opinion that I presented in my report dated October 7, 2022." 
As soon as Finestone "realized [the] report dated October 7, 
2022 did not contain some of the comparable data that is relevant 
to the market value of the [L.A. duplex]," she notified both 
parties' counsel that "the value opinion expressed in [the] report 
. . . is not valid due to the additional comparable data that I had 
identified after my original report had been submitted."  During 
her October 27, 2022 telephone call with both parties' counsel, 
Finestone was very clear that her appraisal report did not include 
the opinion of market value for the L.A. duplex that she would 
have given had she "been aware of the relevant sales that [she] 
now know[s] to exist."  Finestone's report "needed to be 
supplemented with additional data and analysis, and that the 
opinion of market value needed to be revised."  Finestone offered 
to refund the entirety of the report cost if counsel wanted to 
obtain a new appraisal, but Karen's counsel "did not want either 
the corrected report or the refund, and that he considered the 
current report final and binding." 
Donahue's declaration provides: 
Donahue reviewed Finestone's October 7, 2022 appraisal 
report and determined the appraisal "did not discuss numerous 
other comparable sales, including the sale of 3920 East 
Boulevard on October 26, 2020, which is two doors down from the 

12 
[L.A. duplex]."  Donahue opined "the October 7th Appraisal is 
incomplete and must be supplemented with consideration of the 
other comparable sales before it can yield a proper 'highest and 
best use' opinion of value."  Donahue further stated Finestone 
"exceeded her charge, her powers, and authority by failing to 
adequately consider the market.  By not researching or analyzing 
the other comparable sales in the area, her opinion of value does 
not satisfy 'the highest and best use' standard of the Uniform 
Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice, which Finestone 
was expressly required to adhere to."  Donahue opined rules 1-1, 
1-4, and 2-2 of the USPAP were not met, rendering the appraisal 
report for the L.A. duplex "not a credible report and is not 
adequate . . . to rely on." 
On January 13, 2023, Eric filed a notice of related case—
the Washington litigation. 
On January 24, 2023, Eric filed an opposition to Karen's 
motion to confirm the appraisal, and Karen filed an opposition to 
Eric's request to dismiss or stay.  Both parties filed evidentiary 
objections. 
VI. 
Trial Court Hearing and Ruling 
The hearing on both parties' pending motions took place on 
February 6 and 10, 2023.  Counsel for both parties confirmed 
having received the court's tentative ruling to deny Karen's 
motion to confirm the award and to "return[] to the appraiser [the 
matter] to consider whether she wants to revise her opinion." 
After argument, the trial court found that Finestone 
"discovered that her subordinate, who actually prepared the 
appraisal, failed to identify comparables, so that she would get 
comparables that were required for an MAI appraisal [per 
USPAP]."  "[I]t seems to me here the appraiser says, I made a 

13 
mistake.  And I made the mistake because I relied upon the 
subordinate.  And I merely validated his work.  And the 
professional standards would require that I would look at, not 
only at duplexes, but also would look . . . at single family homes.  
So I would like to correct my mistake.  That seems to me to be a 
fair resolution. [¶] Then we look at the California Arbitration Act.  
And it has a number of statutes which have these generalized 
statements as to whether or not a mistake can be corrected.  I 
understand the mistake was not corrected within 30 days 
because Ms. Finestone did not do a new appraisal.  But she said 
how she would do a new appraisal, and for someone experienced 
in the business, it's probably a matter of 15 more minutes. [¶] So 
I would think the fair result would be to let her do an appraisal 
that is consistent with professional standards.  If I'm going to 
have to deal with the wording of the California Arbitration Act to 
find a basis to permit her to do that, I will spend the time to do 
it."  The court took the matter under submission. 
On March 3, 2023, the trial court issued a written ruling 
granting Karen's motion to confirm the award and denying Eric's 
motion to dismiss or stay Karen's petition.  The trial court stated: 
"The settlement agreement does not provide that the arbitrator 
will have an opportunity to consider overlooked information to 
correct the final award.  Nor does the settlement agreement 
provide an opportunity to the parties to ask the arbitrator to 
reconsider her final award."  Referencing section 1286.6, 
subdivision (a), the court did "not find that the appraised value 
discloses 'an evidence miscalculation of figures' nor that the 
appraiser has made 'an evidence mistake in the description of 
any person, thing or property referred to in the award.'  
Referencing section 1286.6, subdivision (c), the award is not 

14 
'imperfect in a matter of form, not affecting the merits of the 
controversy.'  The correction sought by [Eric] would increase the 
arbitration value[4] and thus would affect the 'merits of the 
controversy.' "  Finally, the court overruled the evidentiary 
objections of both parties. 
On March 7, 2023, notice of entry of judgment granting the 
petition to confirm the appraisal was filed. 
VII. Eric's Motion for Reconsideration or New Trial 
On March 8, 2023, Eric filed a motion for reconsideration of 
the trial court's March 3, 2023 ruling, or, alternatively, a motion 
for new trial.  Eric argued the court's "tentative ruling was not 
adopted, despite indications from the [c]ourt of its intent to do so.  
The [c]ourt in the [o]rder applied California law despite Eric's 
contention that Washington law should control.  The [o]rder 
should have been submitted to the parties as a revised tentative 
ruling, and the parties should have been permitted to further 
present their cases."  Eric argued he was "given no opportunity to 
present his case when the tentative ruling was not adopted, and 
the [c]ourt in essence reversed itself by applying California law 
and confirming the appraisal as an arbitration award." 
Karen filed her opposition to Eric's motion. 
On March 24, 2023, judgment was entered granting 
Karen's petition to confirm the appraisal per section 1287.4. 
VIII. Trial Court Hearing on Reconsideration Motion 
The hearing took place on May 3, 2023.  Eric argued, "The 
tentative was in our favor.  There was nothing said by your honor 
during the two hearings on February 6th and February 10th that 
 
4  
Karen's counsel indicated it is "an $800,000 difference." 

15 
led me to any other conclusion that the tentative was going to be 
adopted, which it wasn't."  Eric argued, "We were blindsided by 
this, your honor, and there is a lot of money at stake and it's 
unfair and it's not in accordance with the intentions of the 
parents [to have an equal distribution].  This is basically a 
million-dollar issue.  And the trustee [Karen] knows it, because 
the first appraisal that she got in this matter was for $2.3 million 
and what she is trying to cram down here is an appraisal that is 
admittedly an error by the appraiser at $1.35 million."  The court 
took the matter under submission.  The record does not include 
any ruling on the motion. 
On May 23, 2023, Eric filed a notice of appeal from the 
judgment entered March 24, 2023. 
DISCUSSION5 
Eric contends the judgment and underlying order granting 
Karen's petition to confirm the appraisal award must be reversed 
because 1) no agreement to arbitrate existed between the parties; 
2) Washington law applies and Washington does not recognize an 
agreement to a binding appraisal as constituting an agreement to 
arbitrate; 3) Eric had no hearing or opportunity to be heard—one 
of the required attributes of any arbitration; 4) Finestone's 
 
5  
We deny Eric's request for judicial notice filed August 2, 
2024 as the documents attached to Eric's request are not relevant 
and unnecessary to our determination of the issues on appeal.  
(Mercado v. Superior Court (2024) 106 Cal.App.5th 1143, 1153, 
fn. 6; Mangini v. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 
1057, 1063 [disapproved on other grounds by In re Tobacco Cases 
II (2007) 41 Cal.4th 1257, 1276]; see also American Cemwood 
Corp. v. American Home Assurance Co. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 
431, 441, fn. 7.) 

16 
October 7, 2022 appraisal report was not final and not completed 
in accordance with the express terms of the settlement term 
sheet and Finestone's engagement letter. 
We find Eric's appeal meritorious, warranting reversal of 
the underlying judgment and order. 
I. 
Standard of Review 
We review de novo the trial court's order granting a 
petition to confirm an arbitration award.  (Glaser, Weil, Fink, 
Jacobs & Shapiro, LLP v. Goff (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 423, 433; 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. v. Intel Corp. (1994) 9 Cal.4th 
362, 376, fn. 9.) 
Statutory interpretation is an issue of law which we review 
de novo.  (Union of Medical Marijuana Patients, Inc. v. City of 
San Diego (2019) 7 Cal.5th 1171, 1183.) 
Where the issue involves the application of law to 
undisputed facts, we review the matter de novo.  (Martinez v. 
Brownco Construction Co. (2013) 56 Cal.4th 1014, 1018.)  To the 
extent the court's ruling rests on issues of disputed fact, however, 
we apply the substantial evidence test.  (Kacha v. Allstate Ins. 
Co. (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1023, 1031.)  If the word "substantial" 
means anything at all, it clearly implies that such evidence must 
be of ponderable legal significance; obviously the word cannot be 
deemed synonymous with "any" evidence—it must be reasonable 
in nature, credible, and of solid value; it must actually be 
"substantial" proof of the essentials which the law requires in a 
particular case.  (Ibid.) 
II. 
Applicable Law 
Some similarity exists between an appraisal and 
arbitration because, in both, the parties select private, unofficial 

17 
persons to mediate their disputes.  However, the two are not the 
same.  (4 Am.Jur 2d (2025) Alternative Dispute Resolution, § 3; 
see generally 6 Cal.Jur.3d (2025) Arbitration and Award, § 24.)  
An arbitration adjudicates a controversy while the purpose of an 
appraisal is to avoid one and to ascertain only such matters as 
quantity, valuation, and amount.  (6 Cal.Jur.3d, supra, 
Arbitration and Award, § 24; Bewick v. Mecham (1945) 26 Cal.2d 
92, 97–98; see Gonzalez v. Gonzalez (1917) 174 Cal. 588, 594, 
604.)  Thus, for example, an agreement for an appraisement of an 
insurance loss should be distinguished from an agreement to 
submit a controversy as to the loss to arbitration.  (6 Cal.Jur.3d, 
supra, Arbitration and Award, § 24.) 
Contractual arbitration refers to the process whereby 
parties voluntarily submit their disputes for resolution by 
impartial third persons instead of by a judicial tribunal provided 
by law.  (§ 1280, subd. (a) ["agreements providing for valuations, 
appraisals, and similar proceedings"]; Herman Feil, Inc. v. Design 
Center of Los Angeles (1988) 204 Cal.App.3d 1406, 1414, italics 
added ["[Contractual arbitration] is a procedure for resolving 
disputes which arises from contract; it only comes into play when 
the parties to the dispute have agreed to submit to it."]; see 
Coopers & Lybrand v. Superior Court (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 524, 
537–539 (Coopers); Moore & Thomas, 4 Cal. Civil Practice 
Procedure (2025) Alternative Dispute Resolution, § 26:63.)  Some 
cases say that whether a contract provision that calls for a 
binding valuation, appraisal, or similar proceeding is an 
arbitration agreement depends upon whether the parties 
intended the proceeding to be arbitration.  (See Coopers, at 
pp. 537–539; Dore v. Southern Pac. Co. (1912) 163 Cal. 182, 189; 

18 
Thompson v. Newman (1918) 36 Cal.App. 248, 251–252; 12 Miller 
& Starr, Cal. Real Estate (4th ed. 2025) § 45:7.)   
Notwithstanding the distinctions (Lewis Food Co. v. 
Fireman's Fund Ins. Co. (1962) 207 Cal.App.2d 515, 520), 
appraisals and valuation proceedings fall within the definition of 
agreements governed by the rules of arbitration in California.  
Section 1280, subdivision (a) defines an "agreement" to include 
"agreements providing for valuations, appraisals . . . ."  (§ 1280, 
subd. (a).)  California has a well-established policy favoring 
arbitration as a speedy and inexpensive means of settling 
disputes.  (See generally § 1280 et seq. [the CAA].)  To support 
this policy and encourage parties to settle their disputes through 
arbitration, it is essential that arbitration judgments be both 
binding and final.  (A.M. Classic Construction Inc. v. Tri-Build 
Development Co. (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1470, 1474.)  Thus, as a 
general rule, California courts will indulge every reasonable 
intendment to give effect to arbitration proceedings.  (Ibid.) 
There is no required form or terminology for an arbitration 
agreement, except where statutorily prescribed for particular 
transactions.  (See, e.g., § 1295 [agreements concerning medical 
malpractice]; § 1298 [disputes arising from real estate contracts].)  
An agreement need not expressly provide for arbitration and may 
incorporate by reference an arbitration clause contained in 
another document.  (Wolschlager v. Fidelity National Title Ins. 
Co. (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 784, 791; Kleveland v. Chicago Title 
Ins. Co. (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 761, 765 [plaintiff was not bound 
by arbitration provision that was neither included in preliminary 
title report nor incorporated by reference into that report].) 

19 
State law principles govern the formation of contracts.  
(Sandquist v. Lebo Automotive, Inc. (2016) 1 Cal.5th 233, 244.)  
An arbitration provision that is ambiguous is construed against 
the drafter.  (Civ. Code, § 1654; see Sandquist, at pp. 247–248.)  
When a party denies the existence of an arbitration agreement, 
the party seeking arbitration bears the burden of proof by a 
preponderance of the evidence.  (Moore & Thomas, 4 Cal. Civil 
Practice Procedure (2025) Alternative Dispute Resolution, 
§ 26:66.)  Therefore, the mere presentation of a written 
arbitration agreement without supporting testimony can fail to 
establish a valid agreement.  (Ibid.; Gamboa v. Northeast 
Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 164–165 (Gamboa); 
see Remedial Construction Services, LP v. AECOM, Inc. (2021) 
65 Cal.App.5th 658, 663.) 
Even though California law favors agreements for 
arbitration of disputes, " ' "there is no policy compelling persons 
to accept arbitration of controversies which they have not agreed 
to arbitrate." ' "  (Victoria v. Superior Court (1985) 40 Cal.3d 734, 
744 (Victoria).)  " '[A]rbitration is a matter of contract and a party 
cannot be required to submit to arbitration any dispute which he 
has not agreed so to submit.' " (AT&T Technologies. v. 
Communications Workers of America (1986) 475 U.S. 643, 648; 
see Ericksen, Arbuthnot, McCarthy, Kearney & Walsh, Inc. v. 100 
Oak Street (1983) 35 Cal.3d 312, 323 ["The scope of arbitration is 
. . . is a matter of agreement between the parties"]; Knight et al., 
Cal. Practice Guide: Alternative Dispute Resolution (The Rutter 
Group) (2024) ¶5:2111.)  The key factor is whether the terms 
agreed upon are intended as a substitute for litigation.  (See, e.g., 
Southard v. Newcomb Oil Co., LLC (2021) 7 F.4th 451, 454–455 
[an agreement to participate in "alternative dispute resolution" 

20 
did not qualify as arbitration agreement because the agreement 
did not include "common features of classic arbitration"].) 
III. 
Analysis 
Eric contends the trial court erred in confirming the 
appraisal reports as arbitration awards for multiple reasons. 
First, Eric contends the settlement term sheet that he and 
Karen executed does not amount to an arbitration agreement.  
He believes the trial court erred in determining that Finestone's 
appraisal could be confirmed as an arbitration award "because 
there was no agreement to 'arbitrate.' . . .  Whether the parties to 
a contract have agreed to arbitration is a threshold question of 
contract formation and state law."  Eric contends he "never 
agreed that the appraisal . . . contemplated by the Settlement 
Term Sheet would be subject to confirmation as an arbitration 
award under the . . . provisions of the California Arbitration Act."  
He argues if there is any question as to whether the appraisal 
reports qualify as arbitration awards, that the issue should be 
determined via Washington law, not California law.  He argues: 
"The Settlement Term Sheet was the result of a mediation 
conducted in Washington under Washington law that settled 
litigation initiated in Washington concerning a Washington 
trustee's administration of a trust in Washington.  Washington 
law therefore controls the issue." 
Second, Eric argues the trial court further erred in 
affirming the appraisal of the L.A. duplex as an arbitration 
award because the parties never had an opportunity to be heard 
or to comment on, object, or rebut any of the information relied 
upon by the appraiser in forming her opinion of value—rendering 
it not an arbitration. 

21 
Third, Eric contends Finestone's report failed to include a 
number of relevant comparable properties "including a property 
virtually identical to the [L.A. duplex] located next door . . . that 
had sold four months before the valuation date in the appraisal 
for $2.2 million."   Eric argues this rendered Finestone's 
appraisal/opinion of value incomplete and not final, as it did not 
satisfy the highest and best use standard of USPAP that 
Finestone was expressly required to adhere to pursuant to the 
parties' settlement term sheet.  We address these contentions. 
A. 
There Was No Agreement to Arbitrate 
The threshold question here is whether the parties' 
settlement term sheet amounted to an agreement to arbitrate. 
The settlement term sheet states that Finestone's 
appraisals or "determination of value for the properties shall be 
final and binding on the parties."  Regardless of the phrase "final 
and binding," nothing in the settlement term sheet suggests that 
Finestone's appraisals may be confirmed as arbitration awards.  
(See Coopers & Lybrand, supra, 212 Cal.App.3d at p. 537 
["[A] mere agreement for a binding valuation is not per se an 
agreement to submit to arbitration.  Something more is 
required."].)  Eric argues he never agreed to arbitration.  He 
emphasizes that "[n]o derivation of the word 'arbitrate' appears 
in the Settlement Term Sheet."  Karen argues the settlement 
term sheet need not use the word "arbitration."  Karen is correct.  
"The fact that a procedure is labeled as 'arbitration' does not 
mean that it is . . . and a procedure may constitute arbitration 
even though it does not bear that characterization."  (Elliott & 
Ten Eyck Partnership v. City of Long Beach (1997) 
57 Cal.App.4th 495, 503 (Elliott & Ten); see Cheng-Canindin v. 

22 
Renaissance Hotel Associates (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 676, 691 
(Cheng-Canindin).) 
A party cannot be required to submit to arbitration any 
issue that he or she has not agreed to submit. (Granite Rock Co. 
v. Teamsters (2010) 561 U.S. 287, 299; Lawrence v. Walzer & 
Gabrielson (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 1501, 1505.)  As with any other 
type of contract, an arbitration contract requires mutual consent 
of the parties, and their consent to arbitrate must be 
communicated by each party to the other.  (Harris v. TAP 
Worldwide, LLC (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 373, 381; Serafin v. 
Balco Properties Ltd., LLC (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 165, 173.)  
One party cannot unilaterally impose a duty to arbitrate upon 
another party without that party's knowing consent.  Although 
there is a strong public policy in favor of arbitration, there is no 
public policy requiring persons to arbitrate disputes that they 
have not agreed to arbitrate.  (Franco v. Greystone Ridge 
Condominium (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 221, 227; Avery v. 
Integrated Healthcare Holdings, Inc. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 50, 
59; Crowley Maritime Corp. v. Boston Old Colony Ins. Co. (2008) 
158 Cal.App.4th 1061, 1069.)  A party normally is not obligated to 
arbitrate unless he or she has expressly agreed to do so by 
entering into a valid and enforceable written contract with the 
party who seeks arbitration.  (§ 1281.2; see Victoria, supra, (1985) 
40 Cal.3d at pp. 738–739; Freeman v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. 
Co. (1975) 14 Cal.3d 473, 479; see Coopers, supra, 212 Cal.App.3d 
at p. 537; Van Luven v. Rooney Pace, Inc. (1987) 195 Cal.App.3d 
1201, 1205–1207.) 
Eric next argues there is "no evidence whatsoever that at 
the time they entered into the Settlement Term Sheet either 
[Eric or Karen] contemplated that the appraisals to be prepared 

23 
would be subject to confirmation as 'arbitration awards' under 
the [CAA]."  It is true.  Oddly, neither Karen nor Eric submitted 
any declaration or evidence in support of their motions and 
responses in the underlying matter to suggest, let alone 
establish, whether they consented to or intended the settlement 
term sheet to also operate as an agreement to arbitrate.  This 
operates against Karen.  When a party denies the existence of an 
arbitration agreement, the party seeking arbitration bears the 
burden of proof by a preponderance of the evidence.  (Moore & 
Thomas, 4 Cal. Civil Practice Procedure (2025) Alternative 
Dispute Resolution, § 26:66.)  Therefore, the mere presentation of 
a written arbitration agreement without supporting testimony 
can fail to establish a valid agreement.  (Ibid.; Gamboa, supra, 
72 Cal.App.5th at pp. 164–165; see Remedial Construction, supra, 
65 Cal.App.5th at p. 663.) 
B. 
Eric Forfeited his Conflict of Law Argument 
Eric argues the trial court erred in applying California law, 
as he contends this action should be governed by Washington 
law.  He cites to ARCW provisions and Washington case law 
demonstrating that Washington does not qualify an appraisal 
report as agreements covered by Washington's arbitration 
statutes.  (See Wash. Rev. Code Ann. § 704A.010 et seq.; Peterson 
v. Granger Irr. Dist. (1926) 137 Wash. 668, 670 ["[T]he contract is 
not one calling for arbitration, but one calling for appraisement.  
That there is a distinction between these two methods of 
determining controversies . . . has been recognized by this 
court . . . . The rule . . . that there exists in this [Washington] 
state, in addition to the statutory arbitration, the common law 
appraisal."].) 

24 
Karen argues Eric "relied entirely on California law in 
advancing his argument to vacate the appraisal award" and thus 
waived his conflict of laws argument. 
We agree with Karen. 
Nowhere in Eric's January 11, 2023 filings below did he 
request the trial court to apply Washington law.  He filed a 
request to dismiss Karen's petition to confirm or alternatively to 
stay proceedings pending resolution of the Washington litigation.  
Eric had argued that Washington law, not California law, should 
be applied but only in the context of the underlying court staying 
the action to allow for the Washington litigation to first conclude.  
Eric did not request the trial court to apply Washington law.  He 
did not provide any conflict of law analysis.  He did not reference 
article eleven of the Trust containing a "Choice-of-Law Clause."  
He did not discuss full faith and credit in any detail, or analyze 
why Washington, as opposed to California law, would or should 
apply.  As such, we find Eric waived any choice of law or conflict 
of law argument on appeal.  (See AICCO, Inc. v. Insurance Co. of 
North America (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 579, 595.) 
C. There Was No Valid Arbitration as There Was No 
Hearing or Opportunity to be Heard 
As already mentioned, under California law, agreements 
providing for "valuations, appraisals and similar proceedings" are 
treated as agreements to arbitrate.  (§ 1280, subd. (a), italics 
added; Mahnke v. Superior Court (2009) 180 Cal.App.4th 565, 
575.)  Karen argues the parties' agreement to a "final and 
binding" appraisal qualified the settlement term sheet as an 
arbitration agreement and "made [it] subject to the [CAA]." 

25 
Karen's argument misses the point.  Regardless of whether 
the CAA applies, we agree with Eric—the trial court erred in 
affirming the appraisal reports as arbitration awards because the 
parties never had an opportunity to be heard or to comment on, 
object, or rebut any of the information relied upon by the 
appraiser in forming her opinion of value—rendering it not an 
arbitration. 
Although arbitration may take many procedural forms, a 
dispute resolution mechanism is not an arbitration unless it has 
all of the following attributes: 1) a third party decisionmaker 
chosen by the parties; 2) a mechanism for ensuring neutrality in 
the rendering of the decision; 3) an opportunity for both parties to 
be heard; and 4) a binding decision.  (Cheng-Canindin, supra, 
50 Cal.App.4th at pp. 684–685; Saeta v. Superior Court (2004) 
117 Cal.App.4th 261, 268; Elliott & Ten, supra, 57 Cal.App.4th at 
p. 503.)  Thus, absent an agreement to the contrary, the parties 
subject to the arbitration procedure are entitled to be heard, to 
present evidence, and to cross-examine witnesses.  (§ 1282.2, 
subd. (d).) 
Here, there was no hearing nor "an opportunity for both 
parties to be heard."  (Cheng-Canindin, supra, 50 Cal.App.4th at 
p. 684.)  Similarly, despite the parties' settlement term sheet 
having detailed instructions providing for the appraisal process, 
it fails to include any terms for a hearing or opportunity for the 
parties to submit evidence or information to the appraiser or to 
comment on, object or rebut the appraiser's findings before the 
appraiser's opinion of value is deemed final and binding on the 
parties.  "Arbitration should give both parties an opportunity to 
be heard."  (Id. at p. 689.)  Thus, while an agreement to an 
appraisal may be enforceable as an agreement to arbitrate under 

26 
the CAA, failure to provide a hearing or opportunity to be heard 
rendered this an invalid or faulty arbitration procedure, 
warranting reversal. 
The significance of affording the parties an opportunity to 
be heard or to rebut the appraiser's findings makes sense in the 
parties' case here.  That surely would have allowed for a number 
of issues to be addressed and resolved. 
For instance, Karen's failure to provide information and 
documentation that she was required to supply to Finestone 
pursuant to the instructions in the settlement term sheet would 
have been discovered.  Finestone had notified the parties that 
"[t]o complete the assignment, we need [Karen's] responses to the 
following requests" and then requested copies of the leases in 
place as of the date of value and other information/paperwork.  
The record provides that Karen "refused to provide the additional 
information requested by Finestone and attempted to tender a 
check to Eric for an equalizing payment" based on the October 7, 
2022 appraisal report. 
Another issue that would have been addressed was the 
issue raised via email to Finestone by Eric's counsel on October 
12, 2022, requesting Finestone to "give the reports a second 
review with particular attention to the highest and best use of 
the properties, including associated comparables for those uses, 
as that is a term of our Settlement Agreement."  (Italics added.)  
The sale of the comparable property located at 3920 East 
Boulevard on October 26, 2020, which is two doors down from the 
L.A. duplex, was noticeably missing from Finestone's report.  
This error would have been promptly brought to Finestone's 
attention, as it was by Eric's counsel within five days of receiving 
Finestone's appraisal reports, and addressed. 

27 
Eric also provided evidence showing Finestone's appraisal 
reports did not comply with the settlement term sheet's 
instruction that the reports be prepared per USPAP.  Donahue 
provided a declaration that opined, "By not researching or 
analyzing the other comparable sales in the area, [Finestone's] 
opinion of value does not satisfy 'the highest and best use' 
standard of the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal 
Practice, which Finestone was expressly required to adhere to."  
Donahue opined that rules 1-1, 1-4, and 2-2 of the USPAP were 
not met, rendering the appraisal report for the L.A. duplex "not a 
credible report and not adequate . . . to rely on." 
On the other hand, no evidence was provided by Karen 
demonstrating that USPAP standards were met, and the terms of 
the settlement term sheet satisfied. 
We also take a moment to note that Finestone has stated in 
writing that the appraisal report was based upon error and she 
submitted a declaration stating that her October 7, 2022 
appraisal was not valid.  (Roehl v. Ritchie (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 
338, 347–348 [we pay substantial deference to an arbitrator's 
determination of her own authority; "Any doubts about the 
arbitrator's power to decide these issues must be resolved in his 
[or her] favor."].) 
For these reasons, we find the parties' settlement term 
sheet does not amount to an agreement to arbitrate, and the 
failure to include a hearing or opportunity to be heard rendered 
the procedure not an arbitration. 
We therefore reverse the judgment and underlying order 
granting Karen's petition to confirm.  We instruct the trial court 
to deny Karen's petition and to return the matter to Finestone, or 
another mutually agreed upon appraiser, if appropriate, to 

28 
complete the appraisal reports upon receipt of the requested 
documentation and information from Karen and pursuant to the 
terms of the parties' settlement term sheet. 
DISPOSITION 
 
The judgment is reversed, and the matter is remanded to 
the trial court with instructions to deny Kaen's petition and 
return the matter to the appraiser to complete the appraisal 
reports pursuant to the instructions provided in the parties' 
settlement term sheet.  Eric Huhn is awarded costs on appeal. 
 
 
NOT TO BE PUBLISHED IN THE OFFICIAL REPORTS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STRATTON, P. J. 
 
We concur: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WILEY, J. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VIRAMONTES, J. 

