 
 
Filed 7/15/25  In re Dominic H. CA2/7 
NOT TO BE PUBLISHED IN THE OFFICIAL REPORTS 
California Rules of Court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions 
not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b).  This opinion 
has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. 
IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
 
SECOND APPELLATE DISTRICT 
 
DIVISION SEVEN 
 
In re DOMINIC H., a Minor. 
ISMAEL H. et al., 
 
Petitioners and Respondents, 
 
v. 
 
BERNARDINO G., 
 
Objector and Appellant. 
B341350 
 
(Los Angeles County Super.  
Ct. No. 19CCAD02507) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPEAL from a judgment of the Superior Court of 
Los Angeles County, Nichelle L. Blackwell, Juvenile Court 
Referee.  Conditionally reversed and remanded with directions. 
Christopher Blake, under appointment by the Court of 
Appeal, for Objector and Appellant. 
Leslie A. Barry, under appointment by the Court of Appeal, 
for Petitioner and Respondent Ismael H. 
Janette Freeman Cochran, under appointment by the Court 
of Appeal, for Petitioner and Respondent Marie H. 
Suzanne Davidson, under appointment by the Court of 
Appeal, for Respondent Dominic H., a Minor. 
______________________ 

 
 
2 
Bernardino G. appeals from a judgment after a court trial 
that terminated his parental rights to his biological son, 
Dominic H., under Family Code sections 7664 and 7822.1  
Bernardino argues the trial court erred in denying him presumed 
father status under Adoption of Kelsey S. (1992) 1 Cal.4th 816 
(Kelsey S.) before ordering that his consent to the child’s adoption 
was not necessary.  (See § 7664, subd. (c).)  Bernardino also 
contends, and respondents concede, the court and parties seeking 
termination of his parental rights failed to comply with the 
inquiry and notice requirements of the Indian Child Welfare Act 
(ICWA), 25 U.S.C. § 1901 et seq., and related state law.  We 
conditionally reverse and remand for full ICWA compliance but 
otherwise reject Bernardino’s challenges to the judgment. 
FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND 
A. 
The Parties 
Dominic was born in San Joaquin County in November 
2014.  His biological mother is Brittany T., who is not a party to 
this appeal.  Dominic’s biological father is appellant Bernardino.  
After Dominic’s birth, Brittany signed a declaration of 
paternity that listed Ismael H., not Bernardino, as Dominic’s 
father.  Ismael signed the declaration of paternity as well as 
Dominic’s birth certificate.  Ismael has had sole custody of 
Dominic since his birth.  Ismael is married to Brittany’s first 
cousin once removed, Marie H.  Dominic has lived exclusively 
with Ismael and Marie in Los Angeles County since his birth.  
Ismael, Marie, and Dominic are all respondents on appeal. 
 
1 
Statutory references are to the Family Code unless 
otherwise indicated. 

 
 
3 
 
B. 
The Adoption Case 
In December 2019, Marie filed a stepparent adoption 
request to adopt Dominic.  In furtherance of that request, in 
November 2020, Ismael and Marie filed a petition to terminate 
Brittany’s parental rights under section 8604, subdivision (b), 
which allows a birth parent with sole custody to consent to 
adoption where the other birth parent has abandoned the child.  
Ismael and Marie also filed a petition under sections 7820 and 
7822 to free Dominic from Brittany’s custody and control alleging 
Brittany had abandoned him.  
In April 2022, Bernardino filed (in Stanislaus County) a 
petition to declare the existence of a parental relationship under 
section 7630, alleging he was Dominic’s father.  In May 2022, the 
trial court (in Los Angeles County) appointed counsel for 
Bernardino, Brittany, and Dominic, and consolidated and stayed 
proceedings on Bernardino’s petition after determining it was 
related to the adoption case.2  
Also in May 2022, Ismael and Marie filed a petition under 
section 7662 to determine the necessity of Bernardino’s consent 
to Dominic’s adoption, given he was an alleged father.  In 
September 2023, the court determined Bernardino was Dominic’s 
biological father based on genetic testing.  
In April 2024, Ismael and Marie filed an amended petition 
for Dominic’s freedom from parental custody and control that 
additionally sought termination of Bernardino’s parental rights.  
 
2 
The court also consolidated and stayed proceedings on a 
petition to determine parental relationship that Brittany had 
filed in Los Angeles County in October 2019.  

 
 
4 
A five-day bench trial on the multiple petitions to 
terminate parental rights was held in August and October 2024.  
At trial, Brittany did not contest the termination of her paternal 
rights and instead filed a notarized consent to Dominic’s 
adoption.  
 
C. 
The Trial Evidence 
Before trial, the court granted Marie’s unopposed motion to 
deem true unanswered requests for admission, and determined 
the following facts were conclusively established:  (1) Bernardino 
was aware he was possibly Dominic’s father before December 
2014; (2) Bernardino had known since December 2014 that 
Dominic was residing with Ismael and Marie; (3) Bernardino had 
never provided financial support or paid educational or medical 
expenses for Dominic, nor had he ever received Dominic into his 
home or had any communication or in-person contact with 
Dominic; and (4) Bernardino did not take legal action or submit a 
DNA sample to establish his parentage of Dominic before April 
2022.  
Evidence presented at trial showed the following additional 
facts:   
Ismael and Marie decided to pursue adoption after being 
unable to have a biological child.  In 2007, Brittany’s 
grandmother (and Marie’s aunt) put Brittany and Marie in touch 
when Brittany was pregnant and seeking to give up the child for 
adoption.  Marie met with Brittany and later traveled with 
Ismael to the hospital in San Joaquin County when Brittany 
went into labor.  Ismael and Marie left the hospital with the child 
(Dominic’s older biological half-sibling) and drove home to 
Los Angeles County.  A week later, Brittany retrieved the child 

 
 
5 
from Ismael and Marie after informing them she had changed her 
mind about the adoption.  Ismael and Marie were devastated.  
Also in 2007, Brittany and Bernardino started dating.  The 
couple never married but dated on and off and lived together at 
times.  They share two older biological children in addition to 
Dominic.  
In early 2014, Brittany and Bernardino broke up, 
Bernardino moved into his mother’s home with the two older 
children, and Brittany began living with her grandmother.  
Brittany then became homeless, and Bernardino lost track of her 
until one night in late June 2014.  At that time, Brittany told 
Bernardino she was pregnant and he was the father.  Brittany 
went home with Bernardino that night and stayed with him at 
his mother’s place.  Brittany occasionally stayed with Bernardino 
over the next few months and then moved in full-time in 
September or October when Bernardino’s mother asked her to do 
so on account of the pregnancy.   
In September 2014, Brittany reached out to Marie, 
informing her that she was pregnant and asking her if she would 
like to adopt the child.  A few days later, Ismael and Marie drove 
to San Joaquin County and met with Brittany.  Brittany stated 
there was no father in the picture and she did not even know who 
the father was.  Ismael and Marie agreed to adopt when Brittany 
threatened she would abandon the child at the hospital.  They 
collectively agreed to have Ismael sign the birth certificate so 
that Brittany could not later take the child back.3  
 
3 
Ismael and Marie testified that the idea of having Ismael 
sign the birth certificate was Brittany’s, while Brittany testified 
the idea was Ismael’s.  

 
 
6 
In October 2014, Ismael filed (in San Joaquin County) a 
petition to establish the existence of a parental relationship in 
which, under penalty of perjury, he falsely described himself as 
the expected child’s biological father and sought sole legal and 
physical custody.  Brittany later signed an acknowledgement of 
her receipt of the petition.  
In late November, Ismael and Marie traveled to 
San Joaquin County after learning Brittany was in labor.  At the 
hospital, Brittany told Marie that she still wanted Marie and 
Ismael to take the child.  After Dominic’s birth, Ismael and 
Brittany signed the declaration of paternity, under penalty of 
perjury, and Ismael signed Dominic’s birth certificate.  Once 
Dominic was ready to be discharged, Ismael and Marie took him 
home to Los Angeles County.  
Brittany had left Bernardino’s mother’s home after telling 
Bernardino that she was going to her sister’s house.  Before 
leaving the hospital, Brittany called Bernardino and told him the 
child had died.  In the next day or so, however, after she returned 
to Bernardino’s mother’s home, Brittany admitted to Bernardino 
that the child was alive and that she had given him away to 
Ismael and Marie.  
On December 5, Brittany reported to the San Joaquin 
County Sheriff’s Office that Ismael had “taken” her child to 
Los Angeles County while acknowledging that she had 
voluntarily permitted Ismael to sign his name on the child’s birth 
certificate “in order to grant him custody because she was giving 
the child up to him.”  The reporting deputy informed Brittany 
that her complaint “was a civil issue and she needed to contact 
someone from Family Law.”  Noting there was no custody order 

 
 
7 
in place, the deputy also advised Brittany to contact Ismael and 
try to reach an agreement to regain custody of the child.  
San Joaquin County Sheriff’s Deputy Richard Ester was 
assigned to further investigate Brittany’s allegations of perjury 
based on a fraudulently signed birth certificate.  Ester contacted 
the San Joaquin County Human Services Agency, which 
informed him it was aware of the case but was not getting 
involved because Brittany had “voluntarily surrendered” the 
child.  He also contacted the hospital, which confirmed that 
Brittany and Ismael had signed a declaration of paternity upon 
the child’s birth.  
Over the next few weeks, Ester interviewed Bernardino’s 
mother, Brittany, Bernardino, and Brittany’s grandmother, who 
each relayed the details recounted above.  Brittany stated Ismael 
signed the birth certificate to avoid the legal adoption process, 
and that she realized she had made a mistake and was now 
trying to fix it.  Ester provided Brittany with a copy of the 
declaration of paternity along with instructions on how to change 
its information.  Brittany also provided a DNA sample.  
Bernardino confirmed Brittany had told him he was the 
father of the child, then told him the child died, and finally told 
him she had given the child up for adoption.  Bernardino did not 
provide a DNA sample and instead told Ester he “did not want to 
do this right now.”  
Ester also interviewed Ismael and Marie.  Marie stated she 
and Ismael had taken the child home from the hospital upon 
Brittany’s confirmation that she wanted to give him up.  Marie 
also stated Ismael was the child’s father based on a brief sexual 
relationship he had with Brittany.  Ismael confirmed this 
account, explaining he was the child’s father based on a one-night 

 
 
8 
stand with Brittany.  Ismael also confirmed he and Marie took 
custody of Dominic with Brittany’s consent.  Ismael and Marie 
admitted at trial that they lied to Ester when they said Ismael 
had sex with Brittany.  
At the conclusion of his investigation, Ester determined—
without knowledge of Ismael and Marie’s lie—that no criminal 
activity had occurred.  He was not contacted by any of the 
witnesses after completing his report.  Likewise, Ismael and 
Marie were not contacted by Brittany, Bernardino, or anyone else 
regarding Dominic after the investigation concluded.  
In June 2015, the San Joaquin County Superior Court 
entered judgment on Ismael’s petition to establish a parental 
relationship, indicating the matter was uncontested and finding 
Ismael was Dominic’s father based on Ismael and Brittany’s 
signed declaration of paternity.  The court granted Ismael full 
custody with no visitation for Brittany or any other party.  
Several months later, about a year after Dominic’s birth, 
Ismael was contacted by a child protective services agency that 
was seeking to verify the child’s well-being in connection with an 
investigation regarding another child of Brittany’s.  Deciding 
they needed to take action to ensure Dominic was “protected” and 
“able to stay in a safe and stable home,” Ismael and Marie filed a 
petition for legal guardianship in Los Angeles County.  In their 
petition filed in October 2016, Ismael and Marie indicated 
Brittany had willingly placed Dominic in their custody at his 
birth but also that Ismael had fraudulently signed the 
declaration of paternity that provided the basis for the paternity 
judgment.  Ismael and Marie asked the court to vacate or set 

 
 
9 
aside both the declaration and the judgment.4  They further 
indicated Dominic’s biological father’s identity and whereabouts 
were unknown to them.  
Hearings on the guardianship petition were held in 
January and February 2017.5  Brittany and Bernardino traveled 
to Los Angeles and were present for the hearings.  
At the first hearing, the probate court appointed counsel for 
the child but not for Brittany and Bernardino.6  Ismael and Marie 
first became aware of Bernardino at that hearing, and 
Bernardino—who was not a party to the case—told the court that 
Dominic had been kidnapped and Bernardino was the child’s 
father.  The court continued the matter.  
 
4  
The petition was filed shortly before the two-year statute of 
limitations was set to expire for Ismael or a non-signatory to file 
a challenge to the voluntary declaration of parentage.  (See 
§§ 7576, 7577.) 
5 
Because the record contains only two brief minute orders 
and no reporter’s transcript for the hearings on the guardianship 
petition, most of the facts regarding the proceedings on the 
petition are drawn from the parties’ testimony in this case. 
6  
While acknowledging he was not a party and he and 
Brittany did not seek appointment of counsel, Bernardino now 
contends the probate court should have appointed counsel for 
them as a matter of due process, given it was no secret Ismael 
and Marie intended to adopt Dominic, and they admitted the 
judgment of Ismael’s paternity was based on their fraud.  
Bernardino suggests we should publish an opinion holding 
probate courts must appoint counsel for indigent parties in 
Brittany and Bernardino’s position.  We decline to address a 
proceeding from eight years ago that is not directly at issue in 
this appeal. 

 
 
10 
Between the hearings, a social worker investigated the 
situation, interviewed Ismael and Marie, and prepared a report 
for the court’s review.  Ismael and Marie told the social worker 
and the child’s counsel that Ismael was not the biological father 
and that he had fraudulently signed the child’s birth certificate.  
At the second hearing, the court denied the guardianship 
petition because Ismael was already the legal parent as reflected 
in the paternity judgment.  Bernardino again told the court that 
Ismael and Marie had kidnapped Dominic.  Brittany also asked if 
she had any rights as the child’s mother.  The court explained 
Ismael had sole custody under the paternity judgment and 
informed Brittany and Bernardino that they needed to go to 
family court to raise any complaint regarding Dominic’s 
parentage or custody.  
After the guardianship case ended, Ismael and Marie did 
not have any contact with Bernardino until he filed his petition to 
determine a parental relationship in April 2022.  Bernardino 
sought full custody of Dominic in that petition.  But at trial, when 
asked if he desired custody of the child, Bernardino responded, “I 
don’t know.  I just want him to know who I am.”  
 
D. 
The Trial Arguments and Ruling 
Bernardino argued he should be granted presumed father 
status under Kelsey S., supra, 1 Cal.4th 816, and that Ismael and 
Marie’s fraudulent conduct was responsible for his failure to 
attain that status.  Bernardino also asserted the court should 
vacate the declaration of paternity and dismiss the adoption 
petition.  
Ismael, Marie, and Dominic all argued that Bernardino did 
not qualify as a presumed father under Kelsey S., emphasizing 

 
 
11 
that Bernardino did not promptly act to assert his parental rights 
even after Ismael and Marie’s fraudulent conduct was revealed.  
Ismael and Marie asserted termination of Bernardino’s parental 
rights was in Dominic’s best interest under section 7664.  
Dominic’s counsel further argued that, even if Bernardino was a 
Kelsey S. father, he abandoned Dominic under section 7822.  
In making its ruling, the court started by describing the 
case as the “messiest, most imperfect, most just tragic adoption 
proceeding” that it had ever seen.  It also recognized throughout 
its ruling that Ismael, Marie, and Brittany engaged in fraud, and 
emphasized that its findings were not meant to condone Ismael 
and Marie’s conduct, for which it had “disgust.”   
The court determined that Bernardino was not a presumed 
father under Kelsey S. because he failed to show a full-fledged 
commitment to his parental responsibilities to Dominic, either 
during Brittany’s pregnancy or after the birth.  Because 
Bernardino was not Dominic’s presumed father, his consent to 
Dominic’s adoption was not necessary under section 7664.  The 
court alternatively found that termination of Bernardino’s 
parental rights was in Dominic’s best interest because 
Bernardino had abandoned the child under section 7822.  Finally, 
the court explained it would let the declaration of paternity stand 
despite its fraudulent origin because doing so was in Dominic’s 
best interest, which had to “reign[ ] supreme.”  
The court entered a judgment terminating Bernardino’s 
parental rights.7  Bernardino timely appealed.  
 
7 
The written judgment does not terminate Bernardino’s 
parental rights under section 7664, subdivision (c), and instead 
reflects only the court’s alternative ruling under section 7822.  
 

 
 
12 
DISCUSSION 
A. 
Termination of Parental Rights Under Section 7664 
Bernardino argues the trial court erred in denying him 
presumed father status under Kelsey S., supra, 1 Cal.4th 816.  
That ruling was the precursor to the court’s determination that 
Bernardino’s consent to Dominic’s adoption was not necessary, 
which order also terminated Bernardino’s parental rights under 
section 7664, subdivision (c).  (See Kelsey S., at p. 823 [“Whether 
a biological father is a ‘presumed father’ . . . is critical to his 
parental rights” in adoption proceedings].)  We discern no error in 
the court’s findings.8 
1. 
Applicable law 
Whether Dominic’s adoption requires Bernardino’s consent 
depends on whether he is a “presumed father” or merely a 
biological father.  (Adoption of Michael H. (1995) 10 Cal.4th 1043, 
1050-1051 (Michael H.); Kelsey S., supra, 1 Cal.4th at p. 823.)  A 
presumed father can withhold his consent to an adoption unless a 
court finds, on statutorily specified grounds, that he is unfit.  
(§§ 8604, subds. (a)-(b), 8606.)  On the other hand, a biological 
 
Further, the relevant minute order also omits the section 7664 
ruling and states the court found the elements of Probate Code 
section 1516.5 had been met despite the parties not addressing 
that statute at trial and the court not referring to it in its oral 
ruling.  In each instance, we defer to the court’s oral ruling, 
which is clearly reflected in the reporter’s transcript.  (See In re 
A.C. (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 796, 800.)  On remand, the trial 
court shall correct the written judgment and minute order nunc 
pro tunc to make them consistent with the court’s oral ruling. 
8 
Bernardino does not challenge the trial court’s decision 
denying his request to vacate the judgment of paternity. 

 
 
13 
father who does not qualify as a presumed father has no right to 
block an adoption unless the court finds it is in the child’s best 
interest for the father to retain his parental rights.  (§ 7664, 
subd. (c); Michael H., at pp. 1051-1052.)  When the child’s best 
interest is instead for an adoption to proceed, the court can order 
that the biological father’s consent is not required and terminate 
his parental rights.  (§ 7664, subd. (c).) 
Under section 7611, a man is presumed to be the father of a 
child if he has married or attempted to marry the child’s mother 
or he has received the child into his home and openly held out the 
child as his natural child.  (§ 7611, subds. (a)-(d).)  Bernardino 
does not qualify as a presumed father under section 7611. 
In Kelsey S., however, the Supreme Court held that an 
unwed biological father who does not qualify as a presumed 
father under section 7611 may still have a constitutional right to 
withhold his consent to an adoption where he has been thwarted 
from attaining statutory presumed father status.  (Kelsey S., 
supra, 1 Cal.4th at p. 849; accord, Michael H., supra, 10 Cal.4th 
at pp. 1052, 1054-1055.)  The court recognized that a “child has a 
genetic bond with its natural parents that is unique among all 
relationships the child will have throughout its life” (Kelsey S., at 
p. 848), and “[t]he biological connection between father and child 
is . . . worthy of constitutional protection if the father grasps the 
opportunity to develop that biological connection into a full, and 
enduring relationship” (id. at p. 838). 
To assert this constitutional right, the biological father 
must show “he promptly came forward and demonstrated as full 
a commitment to his parental responsibilities as the biological 
mother allowed and the circumstances permitted within a short 
time after he learned or reasonably should have learned that the 

 
 
14 
biological mother was pregnant with his child.”  (Michael H., 
supra, 10 Cal.4th at p. 1060; accord, Kelsey S., supra, 1 Cal.4th at 
p. 849; see also Adoption of Baby Boy W. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 
438, 452 [biological father must demonstrate “an unequivocal 
commitment to his parental responsibilities”].)  He must also 
demonstrate “ ‘a willingness himself to assume full custody of the 
child—not merely to block adoption by others.’ ”  (Kelsey S., at 
p. 849.)  When assessing whether a father constitutes a “Kelsey S. 
father,” the court must consider his conduct “both before and after 
the child’s birth,” including his “public acknowledgement of 
paternity, payment of pregnancy and birth expenses 
commensurate with his ability to do so, and prompt legal action 
to seek custody of the child.”  (Ibid.; accord, Adoption of Baby 
Boy W., at p. 452.) 
A biological father seeking Kelsey S. status bears the 
burden of establishing the factual predicate for that status.  
(In re D.S. (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1244; Adoption of O.M. 
(2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 672, 679-680.)  Bernardino does not 
challenge any of the court’s factual findings.  When, as here, the 
trial court determines the father seeking Kelsey S. status has 
failed to meet his burden of proof, the question on appeal, as in 
all failure of proof cases, is “ ‘whether the evidence compels a 
finding in favor of the appellant[] as a matter of law.’ ”  
(In re Aurora P. (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 1142, 1163; accord, 
In re Matthew M. (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 1186, 1194.)  Whether 
the facts satisfy the legal standard established by Kelsey S. is a 
mixed question of law and fact, and “we exercise our independent 
judgment in measuring the facts against the applicable legal 
standard.”  (Adoption of Myah M. (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 1518, 
1539.) 

 
 
15 
2. 
The evidence did not compel a finding that 
Bernardino qualified as a Kelsey S. father 
The court found, and Bernardino admits, Bernardino has 
never met or communicated with Dominic or provided the child 
with any financial, emotional, or practical support.  While 
Bernardino provided some support to Brittany before Dominic 
was born and Ismael and Marie (and Brittany) thwarted his 
ability to assert parental rights at and immediately after 
Dominic’s birth, Bernardino knew Dominic was residing with 
Ismael and Marie in December 2014 and did not take legal action 
to establish his parentage until April 2022.  These facts do not 
demonstrate a prompt and full commitment to parental 
responsibilities that is required for Kelsey S. status.   
Bernardino also concedes that, despite his pursuit of “the 
right to veto any adoption,” he is not seeking custody of Dominic.  
Rather, he “only wants Dominic to know the truth of his origins 
and who he is and who his father is and, possibly, for visitation.”  
But as discussed, to gain presumed father status, a biological 
father must demonstrate “ ‘a willingness himself to assume full 
custody of the child—not merely to block adoption by others.’ ”  
(Kelsey S., supra, 1 Cal.4th at p. 849; see also Adoption of T.K. 
(2015) 240 Cal.App.4th 1392, 1401 [“If an unwed father’s 
assertion of full commitment to the responsibilities of parenthood 
means anything, it means he must be prepared to support the 
child in his own home with his own resources”]; Adoption of 
Myah M., supra, 201 Cal.App.4th at p. 1540 [where “record 
establishe[d] that mother and father are not able or willing to 
take immediate custody” of child, parents did not meet Kelsey S. 
requirements]; Adoption of O.M., supra, 169 Cal.App.4th at 
p. 681 [biological father not entitled to Kelsey S. status where he 

 
 
16 
did not seek full custody of child, but rather sought “only legal 
custody, while relegating physical custody to his parents until he 
is released from his present lengthy incarceration”].)   
Instead of arguing that he met the Kelsey S. criteria, 
Bernardino effectively argues he should be excused from doing so 
in light of Ismael and Marie’s fraudulent conduct.  He further 
implicates the San Joaquin County Sheriff’s Office, the San 
Joaquin County Human Services Agency, and the probate court 
that denied Ismael and Marie’s guardianship petition in 2017 
and argues these government entities should have done more to 
reveal and undo that fraudulent conduct.  Bernardino asserts 
these circumstances show this is a unique case, requiring a 
unique solution.   
We readily agree with Bernardino that dishonesty and 
deceit abound in this case and more thorough investigations by 
the involved agencies early on could have led to a different 
outcome.  The trial court also acknowledged that the “under the 
table” adoption and subsequent cover-up in this case are more 
egregious than the circumstances of a typical Kelsey S. case.  But 
as lurid as the facts of this case may be, they do not justify 
departing from the framework set forth in Kelsey S.  The 
Kelsey S. analysis turns not on the frustration of a biological 
father’s ability to assert his parental rights but rather on what 
the father has done in response to that frustration.  (See 
Kelsey S., supra, 1 Cal.4th at p. 849 [“[o]nce the father knows or 
reasonably should know of the pregnancy, he must promptly 
attempt to assume his parental responsibilities as fully as the 
mother will allow and his circumstances permit”], italics added.)   
Bernardino’s response to the chain of events was not a 
timely attempt to assume his parental responsibilities as fully as 

 
 
17 
his circumstances permitted.  Bernardino refused to give a DNA 
sample during the San Joaquin County Sheriff’s investigation in 
2014.  Had he provided a DNA sample, it is highly unlikely the 
sheriff’s deputy would have accepted Marie and Ismael’s 
misrepresentation that Ismael was Dominic’s biological father.  
As the trial court found, Bernardino’s refusal to get tested 
showed a lack of commitment to parenting Dominic.  
Further, when Bernardino attended the 2017 guardianship 
proceedings and the probate court advised him that he needed to 
file any claim for parental rights in family court, he failed to do so 
until 2022, more than five years later.  The trial court properly 
determined that once Bernardino became aware through the 
guardianship proceedings of the identity of the man who claimed 
to be Dominic’s father, “he should have pursued his rights and 
responsibilities as a father more vehemently, more adamantly, 
and more thoroughly in a committed manner to show . . . he 
wanted his child.”  Bernardino’s inaction is thus at least partially 
to blame for his failure to assume a parental role.  (See Adoption 
of O.M., supra, 169 Cal.App.4th at pp. 680-681 [father’s crime 
and incarceration responsible for failure to qualify for Kelsey S. 
status, not just mother’s refusal to communicate].) 
Because Bernardino failed to demonstrate a prompt and 
full commitment to his parental rights, the trial court properly 
concluded he was not a presumed father under Kelsey S.  
Bernardino does not challenge the court’s subsequent 
determination that adoption was in Dominic’s best interest.9  
 
9 
Even if he had, substantial evidence supports the finding as 
to Dominic’s best interest.  At the time of trial, Dominic was 
almost 10 years old and had been living with Ismael and Marie 
 

 
 
18 
Thus, the court did not err in ordering that Bernardino’s consent 
to the child’s adoption was not necessary and terminating his 
parental rights as a biological father under section 7664, 
subdivision (c).10 
 
B. 
ICWA Conditional Reversal 
Although the trial court properly terminated Bernardino’s 
parental rights under section 7664, we agree with the parties 
that conditional reversal of the judgment is necessary because 
 
since birth.  Ismael and Marie each had a loving bond with 
Dominic, and they were fully providing for his needs.  They were 
also the only parents he had ever known.  Bernardino conceded in 
the trial court and on appeal that remaining in Ismael and 
Marie’s care was best for Dominic.  
10 
The court alternatively found that, even if Bernardino did 
qualify as a Kelsey S. father, he abandoned the child under 
section 7822.  That abandonment ruling is supported by the same 
substantial evidence that supports the Kelsey S. determination.  
(See § 7822, subd. (a)(2) [court may declare a child free from a 
parent’s custody and control if the parent has left the child “in 
the care and custody of another person for a period of six months 
without any provision for the child’s support, or without 
communication from the parent . . . , with the intent on the part 
of the parent . . . to abandon the child]; id., subd. (b) [the “failure 
to provide support[ ] or failure to communicate is presumptive 
evidence of the intent to abandon”]; Adoption of A.B. (2016) 
2 Cal.App.5th 912, 923-924 [father’s perfunctory efforts to see 
and communicate with child and lack of active inquiry or pursuit 
of visitation for more than four years was sufficient to show 
intent to abandon]; In re Adoption of Allison C. (2008) 
164 Cal.App.4th 1004, 1013 [father’s failure to communicate with 
or provide support for child for over three years showed intent to 
abandon].) 

 
 
19 
the court and the petitioning parties did not fulfill their duty to 
inquire whether Dominic is, or might be, an Indian child.  
Congress enacted ICWA to protect Indian children and “to 
promote the stability and security of Indian tribes and families” 
by formalizing federal policy and standards regarding the 
removal and placement of Indian children outside the family 
home.  (25 U.S.C. § 1902; see In re Dezi C. (2024) 16 Cal.5th 1112, 
1129 (Dezi C.).)  “ICWA establishes minimum standards for state 
courts to follow before removing Indian children from their 
families and placing them in foster care or adoptive homes.”  
(Dezi C., at p. 1129; see 25 U.S.C. §§ 1902, 1921.)  “[W]hen ICWA 
applies, ‘the Indian child’s tribe shall have a right to intervene at 
any point’ in a proceeding involving the removal of an Indian 
child from their family.”  (Dezi C., at p. 1129; see 25 U.S.C. 
§ 1911(c); In re Isaiah W. (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1, 8.) 
ICWA applies in proceedings to terminate parental rights.  
(See §§ 170, subd. (c), 177, subd. (a), 180; see also Cal. Rules of 
Court, rule 5.480.)11  As a result, the court and any petitioner 
seeking a termination of parental rights have an affirmative and 
continuing duty to inquire whether a child who is subject to the 
proceedings is, or may be, an Indian child.  (Welf. & Inst. Code, 
§ 224.2, subd. (a); rule 5.481(a).)  This duty to inquire “includes, 
but is not limited to, asking the child, parents, legal guardian, 
Indian custodian, extended family members, others who have an 
interest in the child, and the party reporting child abuse or 
neglect, whether the child is, or may be, an Indian child.”  (Welf. 
& Inst. Code, § 224.2, subd. (b)(2); rule 5.481(a)(1)-(2).) 
 
11  
All references to rules are to the California Rules of Court. 

 
 
20 
When an ICWA inquiry is inadequate, prejudice is 
impossible to ascertain.  (Dezi C., supra, 16 Cal.5th at p. 1136.)  
Under these circumstances, remand is required along with 
directions to the court and any other responsible party to fully 
comply with the duty of inquiry—and, when necessary, ICWA’s 
further notice requirements—and to document said compliance.  
(Ibid.) 
Along with the 2019 adoption request, Ismael and Marie 
each submitted a signed form denying any Indian ancestry.  (See 
rule 5.480(a)(1).)  But there is no indication elsewhere in the 
record that inquiry was made regarding the potential Indian 
ancestry of Dominic, Brittany, Bernardino, or any members of the 
child’s extended biological family, including Bernardino’s mother 
and Brittany’s grandmother.  The record also does not include a 
finding from the court at the trial that culminated in the 
termination of Bernardino’s parental rights as to whether ICWA 
applied.  Accordingly, we conditionally reverse the judgment 
terminating parental rights and remand the matter for the court 
and petitioning parties to fulfill their duty of inquiry and, if 
necessary, further notice obligations under ICWA. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
21 
DISPOSITION 
The judgment terminating Bernardino’s parental rights is 
conditionally reversed.  If, after reasonable inquiry, the court 
finds there is no reason to believe Dominic is an Indian child, or if 
no tribe or agency determines Dominic is an Indian child after 
notice has been provided under ICWA, the judgment shall be 
reinstated.  If, on the other hand, a tribe determines Dominic is 
an Indian child and the trial court finds ICWA applies, the court 
shall proceed in accordance with ICWA. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STONE, J. 
We concur: 
 
 
 
 
 
SEGAL, Acting P. J. 
 
 
 
FEUER, J. 

